docno="lists-065-13995220"
received="Wed Sep  9 01:02:01 1998"
isoreceived="19980909050201"
sent="Wed, 09 Sep 1998 00:59:00 -0400"
isosent="19980909045900"
name="Judy Brewer"
email="jbrewer@w3.org"
subject="New version of WAI Page Author Guidelines for WAI IG review"
id="3.0.5.32.19980909005900.0093c820@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org
Cc:w3c-wai-gl@w3.org

Hello WAI Interest Group Member:

This message invites you to review a new Working Draft of the "WAI
Accessibility Guidelines: Page Authoring." The WAI Page Author Guidelines
Working Group has worked for several months to reprioritize and restructure
these guidelines, and increase their usability.

TIMELINE: Please send all comments and questions to w3c-wai-gl@w3.org by
17:00 US EDT Tuesday, September 15, 1998.

After a one-week review period (September 9-15, 1998) comments will be
reviewed and integrated into the document by the Working Group.  The
resulting new Working Draft will be posted to the W3C Technical Reports
page <http://www.w3.org/TR> to replace the current public Working Draft,
bringing us closer to issuing the WAI Page Author Guidelines as a Proposed
Recommendation.

The document to review is located at
http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/WD-WAI-PAGEAUTH. Linked from this document you
will also find a detailed "Techniques" document, providing technical
information on how to implement the guidelines. This "techniques" document
will most likely be issued as a non-normative appendix to the WAI Page
Author Guidelines. The Working Group welcomes comments on the Techniques
document as well.

Thank you,

Judy
------
Judy Brewer    jbrewer@w3.org    +1.617.258.9741    http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)    

For questions related to w3c-wai-ig@w3.org, e-mail jbrewer@w3.org

To unsubscribe from w3c-wai-ig@w3.org, e-mail w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org
with "unsubscribe" as subject



