docno="lists-106-2806437"
received="Thu Oct 21 21:15:37 1999"
isoreceived="19991022011537"
sent="Fri, 22 Oct 1999 03:13:24 +0200"
isosent="19991022011324"
name="Chris E"
email="boods@span.ch"
subject="Bugs..."
id="NDBBJNGEBLMIGFOIEHDKGEGJCEAA.boods@span.ch"

   
To: <www4mail-comments@w3.org>

Actually, I don't if this is a bug or not, but another WWW4mail server
performed flawlessly with the same command, enabling me to complete my task.

My quota for the week has been exhausted due to my multiple attempts to
retrieve a multi-MB file from McAfee.  This was initially coming down in 20
parts.

1. The first grouping were parts 17-20.

2. I waited a couple of hours and then sent a new request for 1-16 using the
GETPART 1-16 command on the line before the URL.  No response ever came.

3. I then tried to get a brand new download stream coming using a GETSIZE of
1mb.  This prompted Parts 1-11 & Part 20 coming through but still not the
balance of 12-16.

4. I then tried requesting GETPART 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 (exactly as
shown).  No response.

5. I then tried just GETPART 12 to see what would happen.  It arrived.

6. Misunderstanding the relationship between the e-mail size and the
attachment size, I sent a new request for the remainder of the packets with
GETSIZE 208896 and GETPART 13-16.  This prompted only one response with part
14 with a 140kb attachment (instead of the 200kb that I needed to fit the
puzzle back together).  Therefore, I discarded part 14.  No other parts
came.

7. Noting that my quota was going to be exhausted by the additional lost
packets remaining in step 6 above, I decided to request the balance of
packages from the Canadian server (idrc.ca) using GETSIZE 307200 and GETPART
13-16.  This resulted in a complete dispatch within about 5 minutes.  I
successfully combined all 20 parts and ran the downloaded software within
minutes thereafter (about a half hour ago from the time of writing this).

I undertook this operation because I kept losing the pier to McAfee at about
50-75% download which then caused the download to recommence each time.
While the time I wasted with McAfee's site was probably a total of about 1.5
hours, the time I wasted with trying to get the Trieste server to respond
correctly was easily 3 hours or more.

I have succeeded in receiving the appropriate update finally, but thanks to
the intervention of the Canadian server.

I encountered similar problems yesterday while trying to receive a download
from Swissair.  Now that I see the Canadian server will comply with the
request as the help instructions indicate, I will complete that download
through there.  Of course, my quota with Trieste is also exhausted, so I
have little option.

Is this a problem that has a defined resolution?
   


