docno="lists-097-4078927"
received="Wed Jun  5 12:43:24 2002"
isoreceived="20020605164324"
sent="Wed, 5 Jun 2002 16:40:41 -0000"
isosent="20020605164041"
name="Jim Ley"
email="jim@jibbering.com"
subject="A new Snufkin..."
id="006c01c20caf$bb1634c0$ca969dc3@emedia.co.uk"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:<www-annotation@w3.org>


Hi,

I'm working on a new version of Snufkin (my IE implementation of
Annotea), to make it more usable, and more stable.  The previous one
didn't use a genuine RDF parser but this one does, and I've noticed a few
things:

On each annotation there are 2 http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.0/creator
arcs one of which is from the submission and could be anything, and the
other is the validated one from the login to the server - the login one
is obviously the more reliable, and what we should probably present to
the user - however we have no way of  telling these 2 apart (we can guess
because of the structure at the moment, but not in general.) It would be
nice if we could have some way - I'm not sure what would be appropriate.

The use of the namespace http://www.w3.org/2000/08/palm56/addr# is
unfortunate, as the #name property is defined as being either the family
name or fullname and we therefore don't _know_ how it is used - it would
be nice if we could move to using vCard schema that is now more
established and common, and more tightly defined.  Obviously this has
problems with supporting the existing software, but I think it's
worthwhile duplicating at the moment to move to more regular properties -
I'd certainly be willing to support both.

Can I use the pencil image used by Annotea in Snufkin?

I'm very interested in annotating images, and after brief discussion with
EricP the suggestion of using my img:Polygon property for a:context (it
isn't currently defined anywhere, but you can see it in use at
http://jibbering.com/rdfsvg/combined.rdf ) and the annotation itself will
be SVG (or maybe just RDF) - if I do this, will it break any of the other
implementations? I'll post more details when I've worked it out more
fully of course.

Is there a page/message/something describing how the threading of
messages works?

I think it would also be nice if for "Dispossessed Annotations" was
referenced by a property rather than just putting that in to the name -
so the computer can properly know that the user has disappeared.

Cheers,

Jim.



