docno="lists-021-16476469"
received="Wed Mar 17 14:16:15 2004"
isoreceived="20040317191615"
sent="Wed, 17 Mar 2004 11:16:07 -0800"
isosent="20040317191607"
name="Deborah L. McGuinness"
email="dlm@ksl.Stanford.EDU"
subject="Re: ALL: agenda 18 March telecon"
id="4058A3F7.7020800@ksl.stanford.edu"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="OF88665C36.8343E683-ON85256E5A.0064F69D-85256E5A.0066357B&#64;us.ibm.com"
expires="-1"


To: Christopher Welty<welty@us.ibm.com>
Cc: SWBPD list<public-swbp-wg@w3.org>,public-swbp-wg-request@w3.org, Guus Schreiber<schreiber@cs.vu.nl>

7am is not something that i can do almost all of the time.
I similarly understand that midnight is not something that people in 
japan or austrailia can do almost all of the time.
The only meeting that i attended so far for this group was the f2f in 
cannes and the meeting time for me on the west coast was
from midnight until 3:30 am. 
this would definitely be a hardship on any kind of regular basis and 
would be something i could not keep up.

I would strongly prefer one time for the telecons if it was not 
something that I could not make most of the time.

I see from the notes of the meeting in cannes that the group preferred 
to have one time   but i doubt if the question was posed if people 
preferred having one time if it meant needing to modify their sleep 
schedules and entire family schedules every week.
if so, i think they would have voted differently.

I think we need to take input from people who are participating but 
might not have been included in the discussion of telecon time.
Given participation from Japan, US, and Europe,  i think we have no 
choice but to have alternating times.
It is simply unfair to have the telecon routinely at a time that is not 
possible or puts too much of a hardship on people living in any 
particular time zone.

I would like to have the next telecon at another time that does not 
preclude my involvement most of the time.
I am willing to collect constraints/suggestions.

I am also still willing to cochair the task force i signed up for.

Deborah

Christopher Welty wrote:

>
> This was a difficult issue because we have members from the extreme 
> points on the globe (Australia, Japan, California), and there was no 
> time that worked for everyone.  There was only one west coast 
> representative there at the time, Mike Uschold.  I was sitting next to 
> him and my sense was that he was resigned to agree that this time was 
> simply the best choice given the constraints.  It is midnite for 
> Japanese and Australian participants, so making it any later forces 
> them into the AM hours.
>
> The decision was to try this time for two months and see how it works.  
>
> Dr. Christopher A. Welty, Knowledge Structures Group
> IBM Watson Research Center, 19 Skyline Dr., Hawthorne, NY  10532     
> USA              
> Voice: +1 914.784.7055,  IBM T/L: 863.7055, Fax: +1 914.784.7455
> Email: welty@watson.ibm.com, Web: 
> http://www.research.ibm.com/people/w/welty/
>
>
> "Deborah L. McGuinness" <dlm@ksl.Stanford.EDU>
> Sent by: public-swbp-wg-request@w3.org
>
> 03/17/2004 11:48 AM
>
> 
> To
> Guus Schreiber <schreiber@cs.vu.nl>
> cc
> SWBPD list <public-swbp-wg@w3.org>
> Subject
> Re: ALL: agenda 18 March telecon
>
>
>
> 
>
>
>
>
>
>
> There is no action item for another telecon time.
> 7am pacific time will not work for me and I expect for most people on
> the west coast of the united states.
> That is a problem since I am co-leading one of the task forces and i
> would like to continue doing that.
>
> I sent email to the list about this yesterday which was the first time
> there was anything on the list about this time but i do not see it on
> the agenda to collect conflicts/suggestions for telecon time.
>
> I will am willing to collect email conflicts.
> I also made a proposal since there is a fair amount of overlap with the
> webont group and that group is winding down its needs for telecons to
> consider taking over that telecon timeslot.  that is 9am pacific of
> 17:00 UTC on thursdays.  if Thursday does not work, how about other days
> of the week at this time?
>
> thanks,
> deborah
>
>
> Guus Schreiber wrote:
>
> >
> > AGENDA  Teleconference
> > W3C Semantic Web Best Practices & Deployment Working Group
> > 18 March 2004,
> > 1000 (East US), 0700 (West US). 1500 (UTC/London) midnight (Tokyo)
> > Duration: 60-90 min
> >
> > Bridge: +1.617.761.6200 passcode 7927#
> > IRC Chat: irc:irc.w3.org (port 6665), #swbp
> >
> > Chair: Guus Schreiber
> > Scribe: Jeremy Carroll
> >
> >
> > 1. ADMINISTRIVIA (10 min)
> >
> > Role call
> > Regrets: Marco Nanni,
> >
> > PROPOSED to accept the minutes of the Cannes kickoff ftf:
> > http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004JanMar/0067.html
> >
> > Agenda amendments
> >
> > Proposed date for next telecon.
> > 1 April 1500 UTC
> >
> >
> > 2. ACTION ITEM REVIEW (5min)
> >
> > ACTION: danbri send msg to public-esw-thes letting them know BDP WG is
> > considering work in thes2rdf area
> >
> > ACTION DanB: investigate publication of Turtle as SWIG note
> >
> > ACTION ChrisW present his time ontology in the next telecon
> >
> > ACTION GuusS asking JimH whether he's wanting to coordinate "Worldview
> > Note" TF
> > DONE
> >
> > ACTION JJC: send to the WG list an example of using www-archive (and
> > perhaps
> > some relevant advice)
> > DONE
> > http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004JanMar/0034.html
> >
> > ACTION RalphS: add attachment policies to list archive cover page
> > W3C Guidelines for Email Attachment Formats
> > http://www.w3.org/2002/03/email_attachment_formats.html
> >
> >
> > ACTION Guus: forward some tips for scribes (from Dan to webont)
> > DONE: Ralph added link to WG home page
> >
> > ACTION DanBri: ask SemWeb CG about constraints and advice re WD, Note,
> > etc.
> >
> > ACTION: Bernard to draft a message to be sent from this WG to ISO
> > Topic Maps
> > community for discussion at an upcoming teleconference [6]
> > DONE
> > http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004JanMar/0052.html
> >
> >
> > 3  TASK FORCES
> >
> >
> > 3.1 Task force list (10 min)
> >
> > Proposal to create and maintain a WG task-force list, in a similar
> > spirit as a regylar issue list. To discuss:
> > - format task-foce description
> > - list maintenance / editor
> > - process similar to issue process: proposed, "opned" (i.e. strated),
> >   proposal to close (e.g. WG noet), close/postponed
> >
> >
> > 3.2 Discussion on selected task forces (35 min)
> >
> > Demos and applications (ongoing?) [pragmatic examples]
> > (no coordinator yet)
> >
> > World-view note - explain diff owl, rdf, xml etc.
> > (JimH)
> >
> > Porting thesaurii to the Web    
> > (DanBri)    
> >    
> > Ontology Patterns and Engineering
> > (ChrisW, DebM)
> > Discussion points suggested by Chris:
> > - name/acronym
> > - how to work (ie html, wiki; format for patterns; format for design
> > issues)
> >
> > WordNet ontology conversion support [content]    
> > (AldoG     WNET)
> >            
> > Time Ontology
> > ACTION ChirsW
> >
> > Link to TopicMaps
> > (BernardV)
> > See:
> > http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004JanMar/0052.html
> >
> > Tools Page    
> > Education
> > (OscarC)      
> >
> >
> > 3.3 RDF-XHTML task force (20 min)
> >
> > [STARTS AT 1600 UTC]
> > Discussion, if possible with people joining from XHTML WG.
> >
> >
> > 4  AOB (5 min)
> >
>
> -- 
> Deborah L. McGuinness
> Associate Director Knowledge Systems Laboratory
> Gates Computer Science Building, 2A Room 241
> Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-9020
> email: dlm@ksl.stanford.edu
> URL: http://ksl.stanford.edu/people/dlm
> (voice) 650 723 9770    (stanford fax) 650 725 5850   (computer fax) 
>  801 705 0941
>
>
>

-- 
 Deborah L. McGuinness 
 Associate Director Knowledge Systems Laboratory 
 Gates Computer Science Building, 2A Room 241 
 Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-9020 
 email: dlm@ksl.stanford.edu
 URL: http://ksl.stanford.edu/people/dlm
 (voice) 650 723 9770    (stanford fax) 650 725 5850   (computer fax)  801 705 0941



