docno="lists-021-6856352"
received="Tue Sep 16 18:49:31 2003"
isoreceived="20030916224931"
sent="Tue, 16 Sep 2003 18:38:12 -0400 (EDT)"
isosent="20030916223812"
name="Marc Dushey"
email="marc@globalchurchfinancing.com"
subject="Global Church Financing &quot;Sound Offer&quot;"
id="1011143238541.1000810823750.49419.201849@scheduler"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:public-svg-print@w3.org

A SPECIAL OFFER ON SOUND SOLUTIONS FOR YOUR CHURCH
A SPECIAL OFFER BROUGHT TO YOU BY GLOBAL CHURCH FINANCING  

Dear Esteemed Church Leaders,

As you all know Global Church Financing is the
leader in equipment financing for churches
nationwide. With the great expectations that you
have all grown to expect from Global Church
Financing, today we bring you a great
opportunity. Global Church Financing has
partnered with Harman Professional Systems, the
world leader in sound systems. Harman has worked
with many churches over the years. Alongside
Global, they have designed three (3) church
sound systems that would appeal to the more
demanding sound needs at the most affordable
price without compromising the best in quality.
These packages will serve the needs for both
your liturgical and music programs serving
sanctuary gatherings of 250 - 750 members.

To the right you will see a brief description on
Harman and their three (3) new sound systems. If
any of these systems are of interest to you, or
you would just like to understand a little more
about how they work, or you are interested in
how to get one, please click on any of the
pictures or articles to be directed to some more
detailed information.



The Harman Pro Group, a division of Harman
International Industries Incorporated, is the
industry leader in professional audio.  We
design, manufacture and market the highest
quality, best performing, audio products for a
wide-range of professional applications. Our
electronics components (i.e., microphones,
mixing consoles, processing systems, recording
equipment, DSP systems, amplifiers and
loudspeakers) can be found in houses of worship,
premier stadiums, concert halls, cinemas, theme
parks, as well as broadcast and recording
studios throughout the world. The Harman Pro
Group encompasses an impressive portfolio of
market leading brands. With these tools, we are
uniquely equipped to provide complete audio
systems solutions that offer our customers high
levels of performance, reliability and
flexibility. We have designed these three (3)
systems to meet the growing demand for high
quality sound, high quality product at an
affordable price that lets every house of
worship have a great sound system. Please read
each system description and see if any are right
for your church.

http://rs6.net/tn.jsp?t=n7yknwn6.o6nsqwn6.f8ouwwn6&p=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.hprosystems.com%2FHPS%2520Services%2Fgcf1.htm

== > "Perfect For The Spoken Word"

SYSTEM SOLUTION 1 "clarity of the spoken word"
in liturgical programs comes from the selection
of appropriate microphones for the use by the
pastor and other presenters, interconnected with
easy-to-use room set-up system, and combined
with properly located and powered, high
performance loudspeakers. 

SYSTEM SOLUTION 1 is designed around the
state-of-the-art JBL Pro AE-Series loudspeakers
to provide a simple and cost effective package.
 SystemSolution1 includes AKG dynamic
microphones with stands, one wireless lavaliere
microphone, a flexible, Soundcraft-designed,
16-channel mixing console with Lexicon
processing, Crown CTs power amplifier, dbx
DriveRack digital system intelligence, and a
complete package of accessories, that is perfect
for the small church's needs. SystemSolution1:
MSRP $12,500

Special Global Church Financing Pricing From
$9,999 + installation

http://rs6.net/tn.jsp?t=n7yknwn6.o6nsqwn6.g8ouwwn6&p=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.hprosystems.com%2FHPS%2520Services%2Fsoundsolution1.htm

== > "Let Us Add Traditional Music"

SYSTEM SOLUTION 2 adding traditional music
enhances your
congregation's experience, but puts additional
demands on sound system performance. With
enhancements to support your choir, along with
piano or organ, the System Solution 2 combines
the ease-of-use and quality performance of the
System Solution 1, which  enhances low-frequency
sound using a JBL Pro AE-series subwoofer, and
two additional JBL Pro AE-series fill-speakers
to ensure good listening throughout the
sanctuary.  In addition, SystemSolution2 adds
expanded Crown-amplification for higher levels
of power, and supplemental JBL Pro
ceiling-recessed speakers for ancillary areas
like lobbies and cry rooms. System Solution 2:
MSRP $19,999 Special Global Church Financing
Pricing From $15,999 + installation

http://rs6.net/tn.jsp?t=n7yknwn6.o6nsqwn6.h8ouwwn6&p=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.hprosystems.com%2FHPS%2520Services%2Fsoundsolution2.htm

== > "Move Up to Contemporary Music"

SYSTEM SOLUTION 3 Contemporary Music Services
demand even greater added performance, with
powerful and uplifting sound quality. 

Upgrading to JBL Pro 3-way AE-series main
speakers, dual-driver subwoofer, AE fill
speakers, JBL Control Contractor delay speakers,
and expanded digital processing using dbx
DriveRack technology, gives perfect support for
the addition of guitar, bass, drums, and other
musical instruments. The powerful
SystemSolution3 solution further enhances the
performance of SystemSolutions2 with additional
wireless AKG microphones, and JBL Pro
monitor/foldback speakers for the performers. 
SystemSolution3 also increases the number of JBL
Pro ceiling-recessed speakers to serve areas
like dining rooms and fellowship/meeting rooms.
SystemSolution3: MSRP $33,500

Special Global Church Financing Pricing From
$27,999 + installation

http://rs6.net/tn.jsp?t=n7yknwn6.o6nsqwn6.i8ouwwn6&p=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.hprosystems.com%2FHPS%2520Services%2Fsoundsolution3.htm

I hope you can all benefit from this great
opportunity. If you have any further questions
or concerns or are also intrested on how to get
one of the System Solution Packages financed
please contact us here at Global by
calling us at 212-480-4900, send us an email
from the link below or just visit our website.
Once again Global is here to help you get any
equipment your growing church needs to continue
spreading the good word.
 

Respectfully Yours,

Marc Dushey
V.P. Global Church Financing
------------------------------------------------
email: marc@globalchurchfinancing.com
voice: 212-480-4900
web: http://www.globalchurchfinancing.com
------------------------------------------------

This email was sent to public-svg-print@w3.org,
by V.P. Global Church Financing.

Update your profile
http://ccprod.roving.com/roving/d.jsp?p=oo&m=1000810823750&ea=public-svg-print@w3.org

Instant removal with SafeUnsubscribe(TM)
http://ccprod.roving.com/roving/d.jsp?p=un&m=1000810823750&ea=public-svg-print@w3.org&t=1011143238541

Privacy Policy:
http://ccprod.roving.com/roving/CCPrivacyPolicy.jsp








 



