docno="lists-052-13730912"
received="Thu Jul 10 12:29:34 2003"
isoreceived="20030710162934"
sent="Thu, 10 Jul 2003 16:20:47 +0100 (BST)"
isosent="20030710152047"
name="bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
email="bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
subject="Agenda for RDFCore WG Telecon 2003-07-11"
id="6166383.1057850443299.JavaMail.bwm@MCBRIDE-B-7"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org


Time:
10:00:00 Fri Jul 11 2003 in America/New York duration 120 minutes

which is equivalent to
15:00:00 Fri Jul 11 2003 in Europe/London

Phone: +1-617-761-6200 (Zakim)#7332
irc: irc.w3.org #rdfcore

1: scribe janG

Please could the minutes conform to:
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Apr/0216.html




2: Roll Call
Regrets from jjc, daveB



3: Review Agenda


4: Next telecon 18 Jul 2003 1000 Boston Time
Volunteer Scribe



5: Minutes of 27 Jun  2003 telecon 
Please note there should be regrets from Jos.


See:
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0025.html


6: Confirm Status of Completed Actions

ACTION: 2003-03-14#4 gk
respond wrt macgregor-01 and macgregor-02

ACTION: 2003-03-21#1 jang
Update all test case copyrights and XML declarations at editors discretion.

ACTION: 2003-03-21#3 em
Remind the I18N WG if they are going to comment on the RDF LC WDS.

ACTION: 2003-03-21#5 gk
Update the concepts WD for williams-01 and circulate to the WG

ACTION: 2003-04-11#7 jos
check impact of closure rule changes on implementation

ACTION: 2003-04-11#11 gk
respond wrt pfps 22 pfps 23 when the text is ready

ACTION: 2003-04-11#13 gk
respond wrt pfps 16 when the text is ready

ACTION: 20030502#11 danbri
send the formal response on non-accepting vass-02 to the comments list and submitter using message 2003Apr/0305 with a new example.

ACTION: 20030502#13 jjc
send formal responses to submitters after issues dealt with in 2003Apr/0368.html

ACTION: 20030509#15 jjc
Inform reagle-0[12] raisers of typed literals decision

ACTION: 20030509#19 jjc
To send response on xmlsch-01.

ACTION: 2003-05-16#3 PatH
respond to Peter regarding pfps-03 resolution

ACTION: 2003-05-16#4 PatH
respond to Peter regarding pfps-05 

ACTION: 2003-05-16#10 bwm
review schema document for changes in light of timbl-03 decision

ACTION: 2003-05-16#12 jjc
respond to commenter regarding xmlsch-05 decision

ACTION: 2003-05-16#14 jjc
respond to commenter re xmlschema-06

ACTION: 20030606#3 danbri
to respond to qu-04

ACTION: 20030606#4 danbri
to respond to pfps-025

ACTION: 20030606#5 danbri
to respond to pfps-024

ACTION: 20030606#6 danbri
to respond to webont-01

ACTION: 20030606#8 danbri
ask pfps-11 for text he would prefer

ACTION: 20030606#9 danbri
discuss #179 with peter concerning domains as well

ACTION: 20030620#1 JanG
review OWL Test Cases

ACTION: 20030620#2 jjc
clarify scope of review of OWL Test Cases

ACTION: 20030620#4 jjc
Dig out cannes minutes

ACTION: 20030620#5 danc
discuss i18n comment on literals with martin deurst

ACTION: 20030627#2 bwm
to respond to cc/pp saying we

ACTION: 20030627#5 PatH
to deliver semantics draft (eta tues).

ACTION: 20030627#8 PatH
to respond to the commentor for horst-01

ACTION: 20030627#9 path
to propose a joint resolution of qu-03 and pan-01.

ACTION: 20030627#10 bwm
to check that the xml schema responses get cc

ACTION: 20030627#14 jjc
inform list when concepts doc is ready.

ACTION: 20030627#15 bwm
to ask xml schema working group if xsd:string is same thing as plain literal



7: Misc Actions
20030425#10  em  carry xmlsch WG's offer of help wrt xmlsch-12 to semantic web coordination group
20030627#1  jang  to respond to webont on test cases with a 'good job'!.
20030627#7  DanC  to inform WebOnt of change to semantics of subClassOf/subPropertyOf.
Status.
             


8: Closing Semantics Comments
We have proposals to close:

http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0016.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0015.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0013.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0012.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0011.html

I believe Peter was happy with some, but not all of these.
The archive is down so I can't check.

             


9: pfps-22,23
Peter has expressed continuing disatisfaction with the current text:

  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0006.html
  
             


10: Responses to Owl comments
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jun/0128.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jun/0079.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jun/0073.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jun/0161.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jun/0159.html
             


11: Post last call comment from I18N
Scheduled to start at 11am Boston time.  Max 45 minutes.
Martin Duerst and I18N invited to attend

Goals:

 - to get a clear description of I18N concerns with RDFCore's post last
   call design for parseType='Literal'

 - to discuss possible means of addressing those concerns

Martin: 5 mins explanation of key I18N concerns + 10 mins for clarifying questions

Patrick: 5 mins explanation of RDFCore design rationale

Discussion

Summing up:

 - Has a show stopper problem with the current WD's support for I18N been
   identified?

 - Is there a change that we wish to recommend to the CG we should make?
             


12: Schedule
Do we need a second last call?

Status of the docs.

Status of reviewing?
             



------------------------------------------------------------
This agenda was produced by Jema, the Jena WG assistant, running on Jena 2



