docno="lists-062-12592444"
received="Wed Jul  2 13:32:56 2003"
isoreceived="20030702173256"
sent="Wed, 2 Jul 2003 12:32:55 -0500"
isosent="20030702173255"
name="Shawn Lawton Henry"
email="shawn@w3.org"
subject="REMINDER: No EOWG teleconference this Friday 4 July 2003"
id="000201c340bf$f927eb60$3b8d7544@SLHenry"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:"EOWG \(E-mail\)"<w3c-wai-eo@w3.org>



EOWG:

Reminder we have NO meeting Friday 4 July 2003, as it is a holiday in
the U.S.

EOWG meeting schedule is at
         http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/#meetings

Our next meeting is next Friday 11 July 2003.

If you are planning to attend the meetings and training sessions in
California in two weeks, please register. Also, included at the end of
this e-mail is a message that you can forward to others who might be
interested in attending (please avoid cross-posting where possible).

Regards,

~ Shawn & Judy


-----------------------------

Web Accessibility Training and Exchange, 18 July 2003, Palo Alto
California USA

Interested in learning more about making the Web accessible for people
with
disabilities? Join the W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) for a Web
Accessibility Training and Exchange on Friday 18 July 2003, at HP's
Spyglass Auditorium in Palo Alto, California USA. This session is open
to
all, as long as space permits, though pre-registration is required.

The day will include presentations on "Web Accessibility: The Basics and
the Latest" and "Evaluating Web Sites for Accessibility" as well as an
exchange of information among individuals and organizations involved in
promoting Web accessibility, and a discussion about additional training
opportunities in the area of Web accessibility. Presenters will include
Shawn Henry, WAI Outreach Coordinator, and Wendy Chisholm, Co-editor of
Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 and 2.0. The training is hosted by
Hewlett-Packard with additional support from Wells Fargo. Detailed
information and required preregistration is available:

         Web Accessibility Training and Exchange 18 July 2003
         http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/2003/0718-training.html

For those interested in more detail on Web Accessibility training, there
are two additional W3C/WAI meetings on preceding days, with specific
participation criteria for each. On Wednesday 16 July there will be a
meeting of the Education and Outreach Working Group (EOWG), with a
partial
focus on training materials. On Thursday 17 July there will be an
exchange
of training demonstrations and approaches among experienced Web
accessibility trainers:

         Education and Outreach Working Group Meeting 16 July 2003
         http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/2003/07-eowg-agenda.html
         Best Practices Training Exchange 17 July 2003
         http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/2003/07-wai-training.html

Please note that there are specific criteria for participation in the
Wednesday and Thursday session, while the Friday session is open
registration. Please consult the agenda and registration pages for
additional detail.

###



