docno="lists-058-5379907"
received="Fri Nov  6 14:07:46 1998"
isoreceived="19981106190746"
sent="Tue, 06 Oct 1998 11:07:06 -0400"
isosent="19981006150706"
name="Mickey Quenzer"
email="mickeyq@integrityol.com"
subject="Re: Conference call Minutes"
id="3.0.5.32.19981006110706.00a3bb90@206.191.137.7"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="Conference call Minutes"
expires="-1"


To: Jutta Treviranus<jutta.treviranus@utoronto.ca>
Cc:w3c-wai-au@w3.org

Hi:  I My recollection for item 7 is different.  Please correct me if I am
rong.
I think that this should read:

7. It was decided that there should be a guideline that states that the
authoring tool should not generate default alt- text but should create a
place-holder alt text.

******* MQ *******

At 06:15 PM 11/5/98 -0500, you wrote:
>Here are the minutes of the November 5 Conference Call:
>Present:
>Jutta T., Jan Richards, Karen McCall, Daniel D., Ian Jacobs, William L.,
>Jim Allen, Mickey Q., Charles Mc.
>
>1. As suggested by Daniel it was decided that this document would only
>address supporting the creation of accessible documents, that the section 4
>refering to making the authoring tool itself accessible would be dropped.
>This was to decrease the size of the document. Subsequently at the end of
>the call (Daniel was no longer present) several members strongly objected
>to this decision. This will be discussed further on the list.
>2. It was decided that a text only view be recommended.
>3. The various approaches to seperating techniques from guidelines were
>discussed. It was decided that more specific guidance was needed but that
>the authoring tool differed significantly from the UA and Page Author
>guidelines. Specific examples will be generated for each of the section
>three guidelines. These will either be within the document, in an example
>section at the end  with links or as a seperate document with links.
>4. Section 5 will be expanded to bring back in the other mechanisms that
>can be used to support accessible authoring.
>5. Further rationale text will be added. We will insure that this is
>international and not US biased.
>6. It was suggested that we should check with an authoring tool developer
>to see if the language and examples addressed their needs- as this is a
>document for developers not the general public.
>7. It was decided that there should be a guideline that states that the
>authoring tool should not generate default alt- text or create place-holder
>alt text.
>8. All members will review the document before next Tuesday and send in
>comments.
>
>
>



