docno="lists-086-6096180"
received="Mon Jan 27 14:55:47 2003"
isoreceived="20030127195547"
sent="Mon, 27 Jan 2003 14:50:40 -0500"
isosent="20030127195040"
name="David Poehlman"
email="poehlman1@comcast.net"
subject="Re: Minutes from 23 jan telecon"
id="01f301c2c63d$dd1b8c30$6501a8c0@handsontech"
charset="Windows-1252"
inreplyto="6C5D85F0-3227-11D7-AFF8-000393B628BC&#64;w3.org"
expires="-1"

To: Matt May<mcmay@w3.org>,w3c-wai-ua@w3.org



is there going to be a call for participants?  I regret that I was unable to
attend the meeting.  I should be able to make both 6 and 20.

----- Original Message -----
From: "Matt May" <mcmay@w3.org>
To: <w3c-wai-ua@w3.org>
Sent: Monday, January 27, 2003 1:44 PM
Subject: Minutes from 23 jan telecon




                      Minutes from UAWG telecon, 23 January

Attendance

    jg Jon Gunderson, chair
    ja Jim Allan
    tl Tim Lacy
    cl Cathy Laws
    mm Matt May, scribe

Minutes

  Face-to-face planning

    jg: f2f meeting March 6-7. Tentative agenda online.
    jg: thurs. am will be test suites/implementation reports. Meeting
with
    QA group.
    jg: Later that am, discussing continued development of test suites.
    Colin Koteles is still interested, as is Jim Allan.
    jg: Thurs pm meeting with Judy Brewer and maybe some EO people.
    Increasing awareness of UAAG and how to solve problems.
    jg: going to invite new people and restock the WG with new members.
    jg: Friday discussion on future direction, meeting with PFWG. We'd
    like to meet with the HTML WG. Issues with accesskey and other UA
    behavior.
    jg: Fri pm debriefing, and what we'll get to accomplish in the next
    year
    jg: Late Fri pm planning session, optional.
    ja: Won't be able to attend
    cl: Will attend, probably with Rich Schwerdtfeger
    tl: MS does not expect to send someone
    jg: Our scope of potential WG members have expanded. We have people
    working on implementation, people working on outreach, people looking
    forward at new technologies. I think a lot of emphasis should be on
    implementation and EO, but we should be thinking about the future.
    mm: I advise attending the plenary day on Weds if you're going to
    attend the f2f. Also, I talked with several people about joining UA
    while at the ATIA meeting.
    jg: Looking to get people from ATs to join. Also looking at Sun's
    Beijing team.
    mm: I talked with Chris Hofstadter and Eric Damery(?) from Freedom
    Scientific.

  Test Suites

    jg: matt, jim allan and I are interested in the implementation
report,
    and Colin is up for helping.
    cl: Our group is looking at those tests, and are adding it into our
    tests for HPR.
    jg: We'd like to hear feedback if something is broken.
    ja: We're presenting on it at CSUN.
    jg: Matt has updated the test suite form to be processed at the
    server.
    jg: For meetings, I propose meeting every other week. Next meeting
    would be 2/6, then 2/20. Availability?
    cl: I think so.
    ja: I can make the 6th, but not the 20th.
    jg: Any recommendations for new members, please forward to matt or
    myself.



