docno="lists-075-4172385"
received="Tue Nov 16 11:04:07 1999"
isoreceived="19991116160407"
sent="Tue, 16 Nov 1999 08:04:11 -0800"
isosent="19991116160411"
name="Kelly Ford"
email="kford@teleport.com"
subject="Re: A few thoughts on using dynamic web pages to improve"
id="3.0.3.32.19991116080411.00850440@mail.teleport.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="3.0.32.19991116094819.00efe9f8&#64;pop3.concentric.net"
expires="-1"


To:"Leonard R. Kasday"<kasday@acm.org>, Scott Luebking<phoenixl@netcom.com>,phoenixl@netcom.com,w3c-wai-ig@w3.org

Hi All,

At 10:43 AM 11/16/99 -0500, Leonard R. Kasday wrote:

>I want to repeat that I think what you're doing to go beyond basic
>accessibility and maximize efficiency is extremely valuable and important.
>It could make the difference between a person being able to compete or not
>compete on equal terms with non-disabled colleagues.   I just don't want to
>give up the option of conventional accessible pages in the process.

I think this point is critical to remember.  You have to learn to walk
before you can run if you will and from my perspective the basic concept of
accessibility still hasn't taken hold in the majority of the internet
community.  The last thing I want to do is tell programmers they now need
to add another level of complexity to what they are doing.

That's not to say that the points Scott raises about timely access and
ability to move quickly to what one wants are not important.  I think they
are but if push came to shove I'd take a basic accessible web page over one
that was designed for my timely navigation by the developer at the expense
of less access out of the box.

Screen readers and talking web browsers are also addressing this issue of
moving rapidly to specific sections of the page.  The majority of current
technology for example has features to skip the navigation links found at
the beginning of many web sites, the ability to quickly produce a list of
all links on a web page and the ability to jump to the first control such
as an edit box on a web page.



