docno="lists-074-10388759"
received="Wed Jan 20 13:29:32 1999"
isoreceived="19990120182932"
sent="Wed, 20 Jan 1999 12:19:11 -0600"
isosent="19990120181911"
name="Charles F. Munat"
email="coder@acnet.net"
subject="Re: URL attached this time. Still seeking evaluation."
id="007101be44a1$62db1160$301172a7@acnet.net"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="URL attached this time. Still seeking evaluation."
expires="-1"


To:<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>,"Joe Night"<joe.night@gateway2000.com>

Joe Night wrote:
"Rob's point does need some consideration. You've actually
hit the nail on
the head. I do have to deal with the "new user" or "confused
user" issue.
The style sheets help -- but for those who can't or won't
turn them off, I
could compromise by selecting a brighter color or maybe by
working with a
typeface that isn't so thin. The green on black doesn't do
very good with
the "squint" test."


After reading Rob's comment about the green on default gray
background on MSIE3, I'd have to agree. Although this brings
up the old issue of what to do about older browsers. Will we
be stuck forever playing work-around games because someone,
somewhere might still be using a copy of ReallyOldBrowser
0.9? Not that there aren't a lot of people still using MSIE
(I presume), but when can we just start using stylesheets
the way they were meant to be used? Sigh.

Just a though, but I think it would be nice if the
stylesheet override function could be controlled by a button
on the toolbar and by a keystroke combination. If I got to a
page and I couldn't see everything, I'd like to be able to
just hit a key and make everything black text on a white
background.

I, for one, don't think that you need to make every single
thing on every page on your site accessible to every single
person using any browser at all. For an important government
site, perhaps. But for a photography site? Still, the key
issue here as I see it is that these are the LINKS. Without
them, users with vision problems may not be able to navigate
the site at all. So it might be best to seek a higher
contrast there and to save the green on black for some less
important element. Also, as you pointed out, using a heavier
type family (or using a bolder version of same) might also
improve readability.

One other point: On your photo descriptions, you might ask
someone who hasn't already seen your photos to read the
descriptions. Then show him or her the photos. I tried
reading ahead without looking at the photos and the
descriptions mostly left me with no idea what the photo
might be about. This process might give you a better idea.
Or ask people to describe the photos to you. This will give
you a different perspective on each photo, and might also
result in more effective descriptions.

Charles Munat
Puerto Vallarta



