docno="lists-030-6988451"
received="Wed Feb 11 02:22:08 2004"
isoreceived="20040211072208"
sent="Tue, 10 Feb 2004 17:49:26 +0000 (GMT)"
isosent="20040210174926"
name="uchenna nwokelo"
email="uchman5@yahoo.co.uk"
subject="(ASSIST&amp;ADVISE I'M SEARCHING FOR MY CLIENT NEXT OF KIN)"
id="20040210174926.10537.qmail@web25110.mail.ukl.yahoo.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:smil-editors@w3.org


                    FROM: Barrister wale AYOOLA ESQ, 
                    ACB PLC BUILDING 3RD FLOOR  
                    LEFT WING 9, MARINA ROAD,
                    LAGOS   NIGERIA.

ATTN: DIRECTOR,
(ASSIST&ADVISE I'M SEARCHING FOR MY CLIENT NEXT OF
KIN)
I am Barrister wale AYOOLA a solicitor at law. The
personal attorney to  ENGNER,Stephen L. Jellinek, a
national of your country, who used to work with
Chevron Oil Company here in Nigeria. Here in after
shall be referred to as my client. On the 21st of
April 2001, my client, his wife and their three
children were involved in a car accident along Sagbama
express road. All occupants of the vehicle
unfortunately lost their lives. Since then I have made
several enquiries to your Country Embassy to locate
any of my clients extended relatives, this has also
proved unsuccessful After these several unsuccessful
attempts, to locate any member of his family hence I
am contacting you. I have to contact you to assist in
repatriating the money and property left behind by my
client before they get confiscated or declared
unserviceable by the bank where these huge deposits
were lodged. Particularly, the Finance Trust Firm in
where the deceased had an Account valued at about
USD$35 Million Dollars has issued me a notice to
provide the next of kin or have the account
confiscated within the next ten official working days.
Since I have been unsuccessful in locating the
relatives for some years now I seek your consent to
present you as the next of kin of the deceased since
he is a Citizen of your Country. So that the proceeds
of this account valued at USD$35 Million dollars can
be paid to you , So that you and I can share the
money. 60% for me and 40% to you. I have all necessary
legal documents that can be used to back up any claim
we may make. I have perfected strong arrangement with
the Assistant Director of ECOWAS Board of trustee,
where the funds will transferred to you be issuing a
CATCHIER CHECK on your name for you to pay it into
your designated account in your Country. All I require
is your honest cooperation to enable us see this dealt
through. I guarantee that this will be executed under
a legitimate arrangement that will protect you from
any breach of the law. Please get in touch with me by
my Private e-mail address mail to:
(franco_lee@mail8.com) for swift conclusion of this
transaction  
 Best regards

Barrister wale  Ayoola Esq.  







___________________________________________________________
BT Yahoo! Broadband - Free modem offer, sign up online today and save ?80 http://btyahoo.yahoo.co.uk



