docno="lists-043-5423351"
received="Fri Nov 29 19:57:07 2002"
isoreceived="20021130005707"
sent="Fri Nov 29 19:57:07 2002"
isosent="20021130005707"
name="patrick_unionbank"
email="patrick_unionbank@yahoo.com"
subject="urgent/important request"
id="20021130005703.9B3F514065@w3c2.w3.org"
expires="-1"

To:"w3c-formal-assertion-testbed"<w3c-formal-assertion-testbed@w3.org>


Sir

URGENT BUSINESS PROPOSAL

First, I must solicit your confidence in this
transaction; this is by virtue of its nature as being
utterly confidential and top secret. Though I know
that a transaction of this magnitude will make any one
apprehensive and worried, but I am assuring you that
all will be well at the end of the day. We have
decided to contact you due to the urgency of this
transaction, as we have been reliably informed of your
discreetness and ability in transaction of this
nature.

Let me start by introducing myself properly to you. I
am Dr. Patrick Omo, Credit Officer with the Union Bank
of Nigeria Plc, Lagos. I came to know you in my
Private Search for a Reliable and Reputable Person to
handle this Confidential Transaction, which involves
the transfer of Huge Sum of Money to a Foreign Account
requiring Maximum Confidence.

THE PROPOSITION:
A Foreigner an Orient, Late Engr. Seiji Kato Ono(Snr.)
an Oil Merchant with The Federal Government of
Nigeria, until his death months ago in Kenya Air Bus
(A310 - 300) Flight KQ430, Banked with us at Union
Bank of Nigeria Plc, Lagos and had a closing balance
as at the end of September, 2000 worth
US$30,000,000.00 (Thirty Million United State
Dollars), the bank now expects a next of kin as
beneficiary. Valuable efforts are being made by the
Union Bank of Nigeria to get in touch with any of the
ONO's Family or Relatives but to no success.

It is because of the perceived possibility of not
being able to locate any of Late Engr. Seiji Kato
Ono(Snr.)?s next of kin (He had no wife or children
that is known to us). The Management under the
influence of our Chairman and Members of the Board of
Directors, that arrange has been made for the fund to
be declared ?Unclaimed? and subsequently be donated to
the trust fund for arms and ammunition to further
enhance the course of War in Africa and the World in
General.

In order to avert this negative development, some of
my trusted colleagues and I now seek your permission
to have you stand as next of kin to Late Engr. Seiji
Kato Ono(Snr.) so that the fund US$30 Million will be
released and paid into your Account as the
beneficiary?s next of kin. All documents and proves
to enable you get this fund will be carefully worked
out. We have secure from the probate an order of
madamus to locate any of deceased beneficiaries, and
more so we are assuring you that this business is 100%
Risk Free involvement. Your share stays while the
rest be for myself and my colleagues for investment
purpose. According to agreement within both parties.

As soon as we receive an acknowledgment of receipt of
this message in acceptance of our mutual business
proposal, we would furnish you with the necessary
modalities and disbursement ratio to suite both
parties without any conflict.

If this proposal is acceptable by you, do not make
undue advantage of the trust we have bestowed in you.You can reach me through my private e-mail address:patrickomo_unionbank@fsmail.net

Best Regards.



DR. PATRICK OMO
CREDIT OFFICER (UBN)
    


