docno="lists-064-10480524"
received="Mon Jul 16 10:55:37 2001"
isoreceived="20010716145537"
sent="Mon, 16 Jul 2001 11:06:12 -0400"
isosent="20010716150612"
name="Wendy A Chisholm"
email="wendy@w3.org"
subject="Notes from 16 July 2001 telecon"
id="4.2.0.58.20010716104809.00d29a10@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-er-ig@w3.org

Present:  Chris, Wendy, Sean, Katie, Harvey

The call began with Twilight Zone bridge problems:  Chris and Sean were on 
the call, then WC joined at 5 after but heard no one.  Chris redialed and 
found WC, said he'd been hanging on the bridge with SP for 6 minutes but 
got dropped.  Then SP called and said he had been on a different bridge 
(yet the same that CR had been on).  Tried dialing in CMN (mobile) with no 
luck.  After about 20 minutes into the call, most of us were here and it 
seemed to be working.

1. AERT open issues
please agree/disagree with decision I made to move issues to one group or 
another [1].  Primarily, does anyone remember issue 44 (http headers)? [2]
[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-er-ig/2001Jul/0025.html
[2] http://www.w3.org/WAI/ER/IG/ert/ert-open-issues.html#44
CR agreed to respond on list.

2.  test files (from Josh and Chris)
Chris and Josh Krieger are working on test files to run evaluation and 
repair tools again.  We'll then be able to compare results from files to 
make comparisons of tools.  Good for gathering input for the comparison 
chart I've been wanting us to complete.
These should be done two weeks from today.

3. EARL adoption
Sean is concerned about EARL being adopted.
Chris suggested that he could create a tool that would gather input from 
the test files and generate results in EARL.
This will be a good test of the primer and good feedback for Sean on what 
is missing or needed in the primer.
Chris and Sean will talk this week, hopefully we'll have something to look 
at next week.

4. A-prompt work
Funding has run out for A-prompt. Chris will work for a couple more weeks 
to tie up some loose ends and then move on to another project.  We're all 
sad to see this happen. Chris says it gives them a chance to sit back and 
plan where to go from here.  Will likely have more funding by January.

5. EO, comparison chart
What other resources do we need to develop to help the community with ER tools?
Chris is curious about marketing - should each tool market itself or should 
ER provide a database of some sort?
Harvey thinks we should do more work with EO.
WC agrees.

6. Harvey is concerned that the UAAG conformance section makes no mention 
of EARL. He sent this in a note to Ian, Ian said that it EARL is not far 
enough long.  Sean had talked with Ian a couple months ago.  We at least 
agreed it ought to be mentioned informatively.

7. Harvey was wondering what is happening with the WAVE?  WC said that it 
sounded like the Temple folks had finally just located who was hosting the 
service and that it wasn't a Temple machine.  Temple is still working to 
get it back online.  Harvey asked about Kynn's offer to host. WC said to 
wait to see what happens with Temple. WC will talk with Judy.


--
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
seattle, wa usa
tel: +1 206.706.5263
/--



