docno="lists-079-1270759"
received="Thu Nov 21 10:52:41 2002"
isoreceived="20021121155241"
sent="Thu, 21 Nov 2002 15:49:55 +0000 (GMT)"
isosent="20021121154955"
name="Barry McMullin"
email="mcmullin@eeng.dcu.ie"
subject="Web Accessibility in Ireland: Survey Results."
id="Pine.LNX.4.44.0211211350420.31240-100000@narnia.dcu.ie"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org,<access-ie@frontend.ie>
cc:mcmullin@eeng.dcu.ie



Hi Folks -

I have been responsible for a project, which has just been
completed, attempting to get a "macroscopic" view of the state of
accessibility of web sites operated by Irish organistations; or,
more precisely, the state of engagement with WCAG 1.0 guidelines.

The project was carried out with generous sponsorship from AIB
Bank PLC.

The results of our initial work are being formally launched this
evening (Dublin, 18.00 UTC). You can find the official press
release here:

  http://eaccess.rince.ie/press/21-Nov-2002.html

In brief - and I guess to the surprise of few on these lists - 94%
of the sample showed at least one WCAG-A failure; 100% showed at
least one WCAG-AA failure.

What we have done is extremely crude, and subject to many
limitations and qualifications; notwithstanding that I believe it
may provide a benchmark which will be useful in developing public
policy (in Ireland, and perhaps elsewhere).

A summary report is available at this URL:

  http://eaccess.rince.ie/white-papers/2002/warp-2002-01/warp-2002-01.html

The detailed explanation of the project runs to 81 printed pages,
or 350 KBytes of download; but is available to enthusiasts at
this URL:

  http://eaccess.rince.ie/white-papers/2002/warp-2002-01/warp-2002-01.html

I would, of course, be greatful for any comment - whether
positive or critical - on this work.  On a subsidiary point, I'd
also, of course, like to hear if anyone has accessibility
problems or comments about the overall site hosting our work, at
this root URL:

  http://eaccess.rince.ie/

Best wishes,

- Barry.

-- 



