docno="lists-017-8485849"
received="Tue Dec 10 22:20:11 2002"
isoreceived="20021211032011"
sent="Tue, 10 Dec 2002 22:18:12 0500"
isosent="20021211031812"
name="Lorrie Cranor"
email="lorrie@research.att.com"
subject="one page p3p wrtieups due this week"
id="008101c2a0c3$f04de9a0$3e06cf87@research.att.com"
charset="iso-88591"
expires="1"


To:<public-p3p-ws@w3.org>


For those of you who volunteered to do a one-page write-up
on an area of future work, please send your write-ups to
this mailing list by the end of this week.

Thanks!

Lorrie


From: "Lorrie Cranor" <lorrie@research.att.com>
To: <public-p3p-ws@w3.org>
Date: Thu, 14 Nov 2002 21:06:24 -0500
Subject: P3P next steps list


Thanks to everyone who participated for a great workshop! We
had some very useful discussions and got a good sense of
the areas where there is interest in additional work. Rough minutes
will be sent to this list soon and a summary report should be ready
in mid-December.

The following is the list of areas for future work that we identified
and prioritized during the closing session. I have indicated the
names of the people who volunteered to write up a 1 page proposal
on each of these areas. Please include purpose, scope, resources,
and time frame and send your proposals to this mailing list by
Dec. 13.


Areas for future work

1. Vocabulary issues [high priority - mostly for 1.1, maybe some for 2.0]
  a. Article 10 issues [volunteers: Diana and Giles]
  b. primary data uses [volunteer: Lorrie]
  c. general vocab review [maybe longterm - volunteer: Lorrie]

2. Indication of agent status, multiple domains owned by same company,
  etc. [high priority - possibly for 1.1, otherwise for 2.0 -
  volunteer: Brian Zwit]

3. Spec ambiguities [short term high priority - volunteer: Matthias]

4. Compact policies [high priority for 1.1, Brooks has been
  volunteered]
  a. What are performance issues that motivate CP and what are
     alternative approaches? Where exactly is the problem?
  b. Semantic issues
  c. Cross-product problem -- need for grouping mechanism
  d. Agent status, multiple domains owned by the same company, etc.

5. User agent behavior [high priority, either short term or long term,
  volunteer: Brian Zwit]
  a. Human readable notices
    i. user friendly version in spec (must, should, or reference examples)
    ii. coordinate with short notices

6. Statements in the spec to better articulate what P3P is and isn't
  [short term high priority, volunteer: Brian Zwit]

7. How to use P3P w/out binding to HTTP and URIs [quick win,
  volunteer: Danny]

8. Consent recording mechanism [high priority, long term, volunteer:
  Matthias]

9. Feedback channel [little interest]

10. User preference language -- APPEL, etc. [high priority, volunteer:
Giles]
  a. ontology - default languages

11. Convert P3P data schema to XML schema [low priority but might be
    quick win, volunteer: Giles]

12. Coordination with other efforts [high priority for both short
    term and long term, volunteer: Danny]
    a. Liberty Alliance
    b. Other authentication efforts
    c. Web services/SOAP
    d. Geopriv
    e. Short notices
    f. DAML

13. XML signatures [low priority but might be quick win, volunteer: Giles]

14. P3P in backend databases [little interest]

15. Identity management [Marit volunteered by Rigo]

16. Outreach - to be covered by POWG


Workshop Deliverables
1. raw minutes (send to rigo for posting)
2. this list
3. summary report (Lorrie and Danny will prepare draft by Dec. 13)
4. one page write ups (first drafts sent to workshop mailing list by
   Dec. 13) -- include purpose, scope, resources, time frame



