docno="lists-004-2092991"
received="Sun Mar 16 11:32:00 2003"
isoreceived="20030316163200"
sent="Sun, 16 Mar 2003 11:37:56 -0500"
isosent="20030316163756"
name="aluaye1@juntos.com"
email="aluaye1@juntos.com"
subject="PRINCE YONNE ALUAYE"
id="1047832676.3e74a86413711@www.juntos.com"
expires="-1"


To: File<aluaye1@juntos.com>


FROM:- The Desk of PRINCE YONNE ALUAYE(Executive
director and financial controller. NNPC)

NOTE REPLY THIS MAIL TO:aluaye2003@rediffmail.com

Dear Friend,

I PRINCE YONNE ALUAYE,the financial controller of the
Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and by
that virtue a Director in the NNPC, Lagos.

I got your contact address during my private search on
the net and I decided to propose to you this business
in strict confidence on behalf of myself and my
colleagues who is ministerial official and other
officers in charge of offshore remittance in this
corporation. We are seeking your assistance for
the tranfer of Twenty Five Million, Five Hundred
Thousand United States Dollars Only ($25,500,000.00),
to your account for further private investment
purpose.

Hence our request for your assistance. This amount to
be transferred into your account accrued from
over-invoiced contract amount for the construction of
Oil Refinery sub-stations in Nigeria (Northern and
Southern Region) in 2000 to expatriate companies. The
contract which was originally valued for One Hundred
and Twenty Eight Million, Five Hundred Thousand
Dollars (US$128,500,000.00) was manipulated
to read One Hundred and Fifty Four Million United
States Dollars (US$154,000,000.00). This contract has
been completely executed and the contractors had been
paid all thier contract bills remaining the
US$25,500,000.00 USD.

What we expected from you in your response mail are:
Your name and address, your phone and fax numbers for
easy communications. You shall arrange for us to meet
with you immediately after we secure the government
approvals of the fund. We have resolved that you take
30% of the total amount for your assistance because it
is impossible for us to claim the contract
over-invoiced money here in Nigeria without your
assistance. In addition,10% has been mapped out for
any miscellaneous expenses incurred by you and us
during this business. And 60% is for my colleagues and
myself. All modalities to effect the payment and
subsequent tranfer of this money has worked out, so
this transaction is 100% RISK FREE. Though, you are
required to treat this business with strictest
confidence.

I wait your immediate response through my E-MAIL
address for now on my attention and send me your
confidential telephone and fax for speedy
correspondence. I will highly appreciate it if you
treat this business with strict confidence it demands
for security reasons.

It will surprise you why we choose you and trusted you
with this transaction. Yes, we believe that good
friends can be discovered and business like this
cannot be realised without trust. This is why we
have decided to trust you for this transaction. We are
looking forward to doing this transaction with you. Be
further informed that your interest and security had
been considered before you were contacted, so be rest
assured and feel free to go into this transaction with
us but let honestly and trust be our watchword
throughout this transaction and your prompt reply will

be highly appreciated.

NOTE REPLY THIS MAIL TO:aluaye2003@rediffmail.com

Best Regards.

PRINCE YONNE ALUAYE.



