docno="lists-016-11129314"
received="Fri Mar 14 19:25:45 2003"
isoreceived="20030315002545"
sent="Fri, 14 Mar 2003 16:25:43 0800"
isosent="20030315002543"
name="Addison Phillips [wM]"
email="aphillips@webmethods.com"
subject="RE: [WSTF] Teleconference Reminder... today"
id="PNEHIBAMBMLHDMJDDFLHIEHKGHAA.aphillips@webmethods.com"
charset="UTF8"
inreplyto="PNEHIBAMBMLHDMJDDFLHKECKGHAA.aphillips&#64;webmethods.com"
expires="1"

To:"Addison Phillips [wM]"<aphillips@webmethods.com>,<public-i18n-ws@w3.org>



attendees: martin, tex, deb, addison (chair, scribe)

Next Meeting: RESCHEDULED for next Tueday, 18 March, at the usual time.

Following Meeting: Need to consider how daylight time affects the meeting schedule (a time change may be necessary to include Kentaroh). Meeting on 25 March will be canceled due to IUC participation of most of team. Many of us may meet informally in Prague.

1. Action Items review:

>  -Mike/Deb: Work on complex transaction Usage Scenarios [Not 
> started. Deb to call on Mike]
>  -Tex: to look at WSDL for further usage scenarios [to do]
>  -AP: will add link to membership on main page [to do]
>  -AP: Send integration patterns whitepaper link. [to do]
>  -AP: Check ULocale paper link. [to do]
>  -AP: Send "patterns" usage scenarios
>  -MD/AP: Send Deb Mike's email [DONE]

2. Discussion.

Deb) A large email document coming containing review of WS-Arch Usage Scenarios. Deb suggested that we consider it and comment. In addition, the editorial information in our Usage Scenarios should be aligned with this (and other Use Case) documentation. Discussion of other Web Service Scenario doc structures. 

Martin) For future reference, can send large HTML attachment via the list.

Deb) WSArch UC doc is very valuable. Maybe base ours on it too. 

Deb) WS-Arch Connectionless case is unclear. We need some diagrams in our usage scenarios. 

Addison) Scenario categorization? We should consider reformulating our US documtne to make it easier to use, by tying it to WS-Arch and others?

Addison) Do a new call for participation? Should we call for specific technologies...? Do we need to set a deadline?

ACTION) Review of Deb's comments for inclusion.
ACTION) Team to discuss reviewing Usage Scenarios and reenergizing activity at next meeting (pre-IUC).

3. IUC Activities and our participation on the W3C Panel.

Tex) We should consider handing out the WSUS document @ the IUC? It's a good reference and might be a useful discussion piece. Perhaps an extract...
Martin) Extracts governed by W3C.
ACTION) Addison to investigate getting printouts. Tex and Addison to look at chunking or summarizing as necessary.


Tex) Next IUC is in Atlanta in October-ish... Tex to check timeframe.

Deb) Raise issue about faults. SOAP 1.2 faults hopeless. hardcoded string. can't be nested (hierarchical cf. stacktrace).
Deb) lang nego mechanism entirely lacking. Needed for localizing faults. (also localizing services).
Tex) Need to instill or provoke a sense of urgency in panel audience. convey the interesting issues. raise issues and motivate folks to getting involved. spur recruitment. get a justification for action.
Martin) Will talk to Richard about activities etc.
Martin) Sending link to paper about localization presentation to list.
Martin) encodings in IETF as a general issue.
Tex) We need to be "disturbing" or get juice flowing comments...
Tex) maybe not ask for actual scenarios, but get requirements in advance...



