docno="lists-016-1684665"
received="Wed Jun 11 04:32:38 2003"
isoreceived="20030611083238"
sent="Wed, 11 Jun 2003 09:31:08 +0100"
isosent="20030611083108"
name="Richard Ishida"
email="ishida@w3.org"
subject="AGENDA: I18N GEO TF telcon, 2003-0611 at 19:00 UTC, 12noon Pacific, 3pm Eastern, 20:00 UK, 5am Australia (next day!)"
id="000001c32ff3$cefde510$6401a8c0@w3c40upc3ma3j2"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To:<public-i18n-geo@w3.org>



AGENDA
I18N GEO TF teleconference


Please feel free to suggest additional items for the agenda.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Day     : Wednesday
Date    : 11 June 2003
Start    : 19:00 UTC, 20:00 UK, 12noon Pacific, 3pm Eastern, 5am
Australia (next day!)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bridge   : +1-617-761-6200 (Zakim) 
with conference code 4186 (spells "I18N")
Duration : 60-90 minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zakim information    : http://www.w3.org/2002/01/UsingZakim
Zakim bridge monitor : http://www.w3.org/1998/12/bridge/Zakim.html
Zakim IRC bot        : http://www.w3.org/2001/12/zakim-irc-bot.html
------------------------------------------------------------------------


*** indicates a topic that will receive particular attention this week




Draft agenda
============

Review of agenda

Review of actions (see below)

Review of dependencies (see below)

Meetings:
-

Info Share
**** [Here you can contribute news or informative titbits about
events, developments, etc that affect our work.  It is information share
only - if processing is needed we should add an agenda item - although
of course clarification questions are allowed.]


Review of recent activity


Content Review
****Review of Phil's Q&A contribution
http://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-date-format.html

****Comments on section 2.2 of guidelines: "Specifying a page
encoding"?

http://www.w3.org/International/geo/html-tech/#ri20030218.131104811


Education & Outreach
****Review Phil's idea of introductory material


Content discussion


AOB





================================================
Details:


CONTENT OWNERS
================

Steve
Anything in section 3 (character sets, encoding, entities)
[first priority]
    Anything in section 10 (Objects)

Martin
character sets & encodings in forms

Lloyd
Forms

Richard 
Bidi

Russ
automatic layout

Andrew
i was thinking of jotting down some notes on the following
areas, and 
then seeing what i could add to other sections.
3 Character sets, character encodings and entities
4 Specifying the language of content
5 Text direction
6.4 Ruby
7 Lists
8 Tables
     8.1 Mirroring tables in bidirectional text
15 Writing source text

John
Navigation




ACTIONS (ongoing and new)
=======

ACTION: Phil, write the Q&A for review on 11 June.

ACTION: Lloyd, write up some code samples relating to date formats and
link to them from the Q&A page at a later date

ACTION: RI, set up Phil and Suzanne as Invited Experts

ACTION: AC to create a list of possibilities for 'non-displayable'
characters

ACTION: Lloyd, send a list of deprecated tags in HTML by next meeting 
Moved to back burner

All: send in pointers to existing guidelines 



DEPENDENCIES
=============

None.



============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/ 
http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/



