docno="lists-004-1788705"
received="Sun Mar  9 18:12:23 2003"
isoreceived="20030309231223"
sent="Mon, 10 Mar 2003 01:09:22 +0200"
isosent="20030309230922"
name="Mrs Mariam Abacha"
email="mariama47@zapo.net"
subject="From The Abacha`s"
id="courier.3E6BC9A2.000028FA@postman"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:mariama47@zapo.net



Dear Friend , 

I am Mrs. Mariam Abacha, the widow of the late Gen. Sanni 
Abacha former Nigerian Military Head of State who died 
mysteriously as a result of Cardiac Arrest. Since after my 
husband;s death my family is under 
restriction of movement and that not withstanding, we are 
being molested, policed and our Bank Account both here and 
abroad are being frozen by the Nigerian Civilian 
Government. 

Furthermore, my elder son is in detention by the Nigerian 
Government for more interrogation about my husband;s 
assists and some vital documents. Following the recent 
discovery of my husband;s Bank Account 
by the Nigerian Government with Swiss Bank in which the 
huge sum of US$700Million and DM450Milllion was logged. I 
therefore decided to contact you in confidence that I was 
able to move out the sum of US$25Million Dollars, which was 
secretly lodged in a trunk box and deposited with a 
Security Company as materials of Inheritance. 

I therefore personally, appeal to you seriously and 
religiously for your urgent assistance to move this money 
into your country where I believe it will be safe since I 
cannot leave the country due to the restriction of movement 
imposed on the members of my family by the Nigerian 
Government. 

You can also contact me through my family attorney 
Barrister Abdulmalik Daudu(SAN) on his e-mail 
address:barr_amd102@yahoo.com and my lawyer shall 
arrange with you,in order to liaise with you toward`s 
effective completion of this transaction. 


However, arrangements have been put in place to move this 
money out of the country in a secret vault through a 
diplomatic security company, as soon as you indicate your 
interest, forward to my lawyer your Telephone Number, Fax 
Number and your Postal Address so that he can send to you 
the Certificate of Deposit and other necessary documents, 
so that you can help to claim the luggage. 

Conclusively, we have agreed to offer you 30% of the total 
sum while 70% is to be held on trust by you until we decide 
on a suitable business investment in your country 
subsequent to our free movement by the Nigerian Government. 

Please reply urgently and treat with absolute 
confidentiality and sincerity. 

Best 
Regards, 
Hajia Mariam abacha(Mrs.) 

NB:To proove the authenticity of my story i will want you 
to go through the links below. 



1:http://www.transnationale.org/anglais/sources/tiersmonde/d
irigeants__abach 
a.htm 
2:http://allafrica.com/stories/200203180074.html 
3:http://www.time.com/time/europe/magazine/2000/27/swiss.htm



---------------------
Free Email Service
http://www.zapo.net/



