docno="lists-108-8165490"
received="Thu May 27 00:53:24 2004"
isoreceived="20040527045324"
sent="Thu, 27 May 2004 00:41:31 -0400 (EDT)"
isosent="20040527044131"
name="Gerald Bauer"
email="luxorxul@yahoo.ca"
subject="WWW2004 XForms Talk Slides by Steven Pemberton Now Online"
id="20040527044131.98674.qmail@web40812.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:www-forms@w3.org


Hello,

  Steven Pemberton who chairs the W3C HTML and XForms
Working Groups has posted the slides for last week's
WWW2004 talk about XForms in New York online.

  In the "XForms 1.0: en route to success slide"
Steven writes:

   On the day of release there were more
implementations than any other W3C specification on
the day of release, ever.

  Around 30 implementations announced so far,
including plugins, native implementations, proxies,
'zero install' implementations, a voice-browser, an
editor, a validator...

  Major companies and industries are already using
XForms (e.g. Bristol-Myers-Squibb, Frauenhofer, Daiwa
- a Japanese Bank, the British Life Insurance
industry... and more I can't tell you about yet: watch
this space!)


   So much about the hype. As far as I know not a
single browser vendor (e.g. Microsoft, Apple, Opera,
Mozilla, Konqueror, etc.) has endorsed W3C XForms.
Ironically, the W3C is supposed to be a vendor
consortium. 

   Anyway, for a reality check I invite you to check
out the Richmond Post poll asking "What is your XForms
Player of choice?" online @
http://xul.sourceforge.net/post/2004/05/poll_what_is_your_xforms_player_of_choice.html

   So far only about a hundred people have bothered to
vote although the poll is now up for more than a week
and I've promoted it *twice* on half a dozen
mailinglists including xml-dev, www-forms, and more.

   Is XForms the next big thing?  

   According to Steven:

   It looks like it is going to be the year of XForms.

   XForms has hit a nerve, and is supplying a need:
industry reponse has been incredible.


   More @
http://www.w3.org/2004/Talks/05-19-steven-XForms-WWW2004

     - Gerald

-------------------
Gerald Bauer
Open XUL Alliance - A Rich Internet For Everyone |
http://xul.sourceforge.net    


______________________________________________________________________ 
Post your free ad now! http://personals.yahoo.ca



