docno="lists-097-4148561"
received="Wed Jun 26 01:07:09 2002"
isoreceived="20020626050709"
sent="Thu, 20 Jun 2002 16:11:43 -0400 (EDT)"
isosent="20020620201143"
name="David Evans"
email="dave@digicraft.com"
subject="Server development questions"
id="003601c21896$e2e69b00$d486ec3f@elin"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<www-annotation@w3.org>







I have spent quite some time attempting to install the annotation server
on a RedHat 7.3 server. Much of the time is spent dusting off old
compiling and perl knowledge but now I am completely stuck and need some
help.

The latest problem is:

$RDF_Schema_URI is not exported by the W3C:Rdf::Atoms module at
../../../W3C/Annotations/AnnotationsApp.pm line 27.

This happens when I run "perl annotate DEBUG" from the command line.
What changes do I need to make to resolve this issue?

I have to say that the documentation at
http://www.w3.org/1999/02/26-modules/User/Annotations-HOWTO has boggled
my mind. Problems with CVS, lots of missing perl libraries, strange
checkout behaviors, cryptic documentation and broken hyperlinks make
installing the server a nightmare unless you *really* know what you are
doing. I see mention of a new version of the server. What is the status
of this? Do the installation documents reflect changes to files in CVS?

I will continue to RTFM and plug my way through this because I am very
interested in seeing what the annotation server is capable of and how
extentible we can make it. At this point it seems best to put it on a
shelf at least until there is a CPAN mod for it or at least updated
documentation. I am writing down additional installation documentation
from my inexperienced point of view and would be happy to share the info
with the maintainer of the website.

TIA.

David Evans



