docno="lists-059-14380086"
received="Sat Sep  8 18:13:08 2001"
isoreceived="20010908221308"
sent="Sat, 8 Sep 2001 18:13:06 -0400 (EDT)"
isosent="20010908221306"
name="Charles McCathieNevile"
email="charles@w3.org"
subject="RE: Face to face agenda"
id="Pine.LNX.4.30.0109081806570.22912-100000@tux.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="a05100310b7bed2e5e25e&#64;[142.150.64.191]"
expires="-1"

To: Jutta Treviranus<jutta.treviranus@utoronto.ca>
cc:<w3c-wai-au@w3.org>


I suggest that we list questions people have as part of the agenda (along
with who has the question, and can be expected to lead off the discussion).

I may have misread Giorgio's discussion about evaluaation methodology, and
whether I did or not it occurs to me that it would be good to talk about
techniques for assessing the accessibility of content - checkpoints 4.1 and
4.2, as well as techniques for checkpoints 3.1 and 3.2, which are about
guiding the author to avoid mistakes in the first place. In particular, what
can tools do to guide authors to produce structured content? What is missing
in our existing techniques for assessing accessibility errors, both in terms
of WCAG checkpooints we don't have any current information about, and
techniques we can improve? I propose that we discuss this on Wednesday
afternoon.

Cheers

Charles

On Fri, 7 Sep 2001, Jutta Treviranus wrote:

  Should we have issues and questions ready for the discussions with
  the Microsoft team members? Since we only have about an hour with
  each, it would be good to focus the presentation and discussion. As
  an example it would be good to discuss the issues that arose from the
  Front Page ATAG evaluations with the Front Page team. It would be
  good to discuss difficulties with conversion round-tripping or Word
  Style sheet to CSS conversion with the Word team, etc. Guideline 7
  compliance would be a good discussion topic with the Visual Studio
  team.

  Jutta

  At 10:23 PM -0400 9/6/01, Charles McCathieNevile wrote:
  >So I propose something along the following lines:
  >
  >Wednesday:
  >
  >Intros, agenda setting, group administrivia (such as where we are up to in
  >wombat and techniques drafts...)
  >
  >Visual Studio Web Forms (what is this? I don't know what it does)
  >presentation / discussion of relevant techniques areas.
  >
  >lunch
  >
  >afternoon to be determined based on what we decide we need.
  >
  >Thursday
  >
  >morning: document markup tools - word and frontpage presentations /
  >discussions
  >
  >lunch
  >
  >Early Afternoon; evaluation techniques, office evaluation team presentation
  >
  >Late afternoon: to be determined.
  >
  >---
  >
  >what do people have as preferences for filling the gaps, if anything?
  >
  >Cheers
  >
  >Chaals
  >
  >On Wed, 5 Sep 2001, Heather Swayne wrote:
  >
  >   Judy Brewer clarified that we will be meeting with WCAG Tuesday
  >   afternoon, so I have scheduled the Visual Studio Web Forms product group
  >   (Glen Kowalski) to meet with us Wednesday morning from 10:30-12:00.
  >
  >   Heather Swayne
  >
  >   P.S. this e-mail was written using voice dictation technology so please
  >   excuse any "voice mistakes"
  >
  >
  >   -----Original Message-----
  >
  >   Thursday Sept. 13th
  >   9-10:30Jeff Reynar from the Word team
  >   10:30-12:00Lou Nell Gerard from the FrontPage team
  >   1:00-2:30Stephen McKain from Office testing
  >
  >   Heather Swayne


-- 
Charles McCathieNevile    http://www.w3.org/People/Charles  phone: +61 409 134 136
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative     http://www.w3.org/WAI    fax: +1 617 258 5999
Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
(or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)



