docno="lists-071-12923603"
received="Sat Nov 15 17:28:00 2003"
isoreceived="20031115222800"
sent="Sat, 15 Nov 2003 16:24:49 -0600"
isosent="20031115222449"
name="Gregg Vanderheiden"
email="gv@trace.wisc.edu"
subject="RE: wwaac - concept coding workshop (quick followup message)"
id="008f01c3abc7$652c75c0$086fa8c0@USD320002X"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="000001c3aac4$72f274b0$b4222486&#64;Wench"
expires="-1"

To:"'andy judson'"<ajudson@computing.dundee.ac.uk>
Cc:<work-def-v2@nist.gov>,<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


There are other people in our V2 work group that I think would be
interested.  In fact I know a number are.  Rather than missing someone
however, I will post this to our workgroup and let them touch base with you
individually, letting you know their level of interest at the same time. 

 

In fact I'm going to post to the WCAG working group list too - so they are
aware of the group - and can let you know if they are interested too.   A
number of us are already listed as you know.

 

Ciao 

 
Gregg

 -- ------------------------------ 
Gregg C Vanderheiden Ph.D. 
Professor - Ind. Engr. & BioMed Engr.
Director - Trace R & D Center 
University of Wisconsin-Madison 

-----Original Message-----
From: andy judson [mailto:ajudson@computing.dundee.ac.uk] 
Sent: Friday, November 14, 2003 9:32 AM
To: gv@trace.wisc.edu
Subject: wwaac - concept coding workshop (quick followup message)

 

Hi all,

 

This is quick followup message to the concept coding workshop.

 

Firstly on behalf of the wwaac consortium i would like to thank everyone who
was able to attend this first workshop for doing so. Our discussions were
very helpful and hopefully from here we can continue to collaborate and
establish a working community interested in the concept coding idea and its
development

 

I've setup a quick web area were i've placed copies of the code of practice
as it currently exists, the slides that we used in the workshop and the
mindmap of the discussions we collated this morning....
<http://dewey.computing.dundee.ac.uk/ccf/>
http://dewey.computing.dundee.ac.uk/ccf/

 

Next week i'll will write up some of the discussions points and notes etc
and also post them to the site and i'll also make the area into a ccf
information portal. I'll also be testing another server facility for
document management. Another major effor for the next week or so will be to
incorporate the major discussions points into the code of practice document
- namely the support of localisation/personalisation ontologies and an
additional chapter to the code of practice that addresses the needs of
developers - examples, how-to etc. I'll describe all this further next week.

 

Please have a look at the list of people who have received this email
(interestgroup.zip). If you think from the list of names that we have, that
there are people missing - can you tell me so I can add them in. Likewise,
if you are not interested in being involved can u let me know so I can
remove you from the group. In some instances the email addresses I have for
people are general emails to companies eg. info@..., so if you can provide
me with more specific addresses that would also be useful.

 

Finanlly I would like to thank everyone again for attending, and I hope it
was of interest to you too.

 

I hope to have many more discussions with you all soon, but for the moment
goodbye.

 

Andy Judson.

 



