docno="lists-081-0335529"
received="Sun Mar 21 06:56:28 2004"
isoreceived="20040321115628"
sent="Sun, 21 Mar 2004 11:55:33 -0000"
isosent="20040321115533"
name="Paul Davis"
email="paul@ten-20.com"
subject="Re: [WAI-IG] Serving my page in the right language"
id="000a01c40f3b$7dfd0ec0$1bbbfea9@JAMESU"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="1079860901.22235.5.camel&#64;localhost"
expires="-1"


To:"David Dorward"<david@us-lot.org>,<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>


"The number of people visiting sites that are available in multiple
languages is tiny?"

Not saying overall visitor levels are low, just people who would be unable
to navigate the site and expeience the problems highlighted are miniscule,
and those who are effected are possibly of a paranoid nature, not visually
challenged. Therefore their ability to navigate the site is not in question,
just their mental state. However, the number of color blind and low vision
visitors would be far greater, yet this simple and obvious flaw was not
mentioned. It was the more sophisticated stuff that drew the attention.

"You are missing that a complete critique of the site isn't needed in
order to point out that the authors of the site are unlikely to have the
technical knowledge to implement language negotiation."

I fail to see how bemoaning the lack of other's skills on this list promotes
accessibility, why are you not attempting to change things from within the
organization? An email suggesting your recommondations with the suggested
coding to the webmaster may be of more direct and constructive help, if a
bit revoluionary granted. A fifth columnist may be more effective in these
cases.

There is a mistake of falling in love with the technical side of coding and
not the original objective of making the internaet accessible to the masses,
no matter their disability or even the lack of one!!!! (digital divide wise)

All too often I read on this list about Jaws (or any other paid for
assistive software) experiencing problems with this or Jaws (ditto) needs to
be adapted to do that, you are lucky to have Jaws (ditto) in the first
place. Try navigating the net on a pentium 1 with 64mb ram and viewed on a
14 inch screen. Accesibility defines a whole new set of rules. The skills to
adapt computer settings in the first place are also all too often assumed. I
often visit clients who would love to be abused with the problems
highlighted here if only they had the hardware to be so mistreated in the
first place!

Not a personal attack here, I like to think of these posts as 'present
company accepted' I would however, suggest (as I did once 3 years ago on
this list) a visit to the nearest library and look up Kiplings poem
'Tomlinson' ....thou has read, thou has heard, thou has seen, good lack, yet
the tale is yet to run...... come to think of it the poem 'IF' written by
the same author in 1910 also applies in today's world from a slightly
different perspective!!

smiles
Paul (Jiminy Cricket) Davis



