docno="lists-047-14342381"
received="Tue May  1 20:27:53 2001"
isoreceived="20010502002753"
sent="Wed, 02 May 2001 08:27:30 +0100"
isosent="20010502072730"
name="Brian McBride"
email="bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
subject="Re: RDFCore WG 2001-04-27 teleconference agenda"
id="3AEFB6E1.604B4ACF@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="3AEF49B0.20102&#64;bbn.com"
expires="-1"


To: Mike Dean<mdean@bbn.com>
CC: rdf core<w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org>

Great Job Mike!  An excellent example to follow in the future.

Posting the minutes to the list this seems like a good thing to do.  I will
place a link off the WG overview page to them.  I suggest if anyone has any
corrections/clarifications they send them to the list and I'll take on the job
of updating.

Brian


Mike Dean wrote:
> 
> Attached is a summary of the telecon.  I'm unsure of the
> procedure for posting these minutes to the web or making
> corrections.
> 
>         Mike
> 
>     -----------------------------------------------------------------------
> 
> RDF Core WG Minutes 27 April 2001
> 
> This page summarizes the telecon for the RDF Core Working Group held from 1000
> to 1100 EDT on 27 April 2001. These minutes were prepared by Mike Dean, but
> have not yet been reviewed by the other participants.
> 
> Participants
> 
>    * Dave Beckett
>    * Frank Boumphrey
>    * Dan Brickley
>    * Mike Dean
>    * Rael Dornfest (joined late)
>    * Jan Grant
>    * R.V. Guha
>    * Martyn Horner
>    * Michael Kopchenov
>    * Ora Lassila
>    * Frank Manola
>    * Brian McBride, chairing
>    * Eric Miller
>    * Stephen Petschulat
>    * Aaron Swartz
> 
> Regrets received from Art Barstow, Jos De Roo, Graham Klyne, and Renato
> Ianella.
> 
> Charter
> 
> Brian reviewed the charter, noting that backward compatibility with existing
> RDF is a priority. No issues were raised with the charter, although Frank
> Manola noted that the "devil may be in the details".
> 
> Issue Discussion
> 
> We discussed 3 technical issues:
> 
> #rdf-ns-prefix-confusion
>      The XML Namespace spec doesn't address unprefixed attributes. We'll have
>      to live with their bug. RESOLVED: We'll strongly recommend the use of
>      namespace qualified attributes, and allow but deprecate unqualified
>      attributes.
> #rdf-container-syntax-ambiguity
> #rdf-container-syntax-vs-schema
>      Ora noted that it was an original requirement for RDF that parsing should
>      not require knowledge of the schema.
> 
> The discussion on the latter 2 issues largely occurred in parallel and became
> a more general discussion about containers. Several people advocated
> deprecating container types and/or making them a separate module (this also
> applies to reification).
> 
> It also brought out several larger issues:
> 
>    * RDF Syntax vs. Model
>    * We should record more of the history behind various RDF issues.
>    * What is the real-world use of containers and other RDF features? What
>      will break if we change stuff? ACTION (everyone): send RDF feature usage
>      information from real-world applications you know of to Guha, who will
>      collect it.
>    * Modularization can be accomplished via namespaces or documents.
>    * Redefinition of the RDF(S) namespaces may not be required.
> 
> ACTION: Dan Brickley will own the "container problem". Ora Lassila will help.
> 
> Face-to-Face Meeting
> 
> W3C procedure requires 8 weeks notice for a face-to-face meeting. RESOLVED:
> We'll meet August 1 and 2 in conjunction with the International Semantic Web
> Workshop (SWWS) at Stanford. ACTION (various): Contact Brian McBride and Dan
> Brickley if your organization has a facility in the Bay Area that would be
> willing to host a meeting of 20-25 people.
> 
> Issue Ownership
> 
> Brian asked for volunteers to "own" (analyze and write-up a suggested fix)
> items on the issues list:
> 
> #rdfms-editorial
>      Ora Lassila to own. Dan Brickley and Guha to help.
> #rdfms-reification-required
>      Guha to own. Ora Lassila and Dan Brickley to help.
> #rdfms-empty-property-elements
>      Jos De Roo to own.
> #rdfms-not-id-and-resource-attr
>      Dave Beckett to own
> #rdfms-resource-semantics
>      Martyn Horner to own.
> #rdf-terminologicus
>      Martyn Horner to own.
> 
> Next Telecon
> 
> There will be no telecon next week, due to WWW 10. The next telecon will be 11
> May 2001.
> 
> Links
> 
> Agenda
> IRC log
> RDF Issues



