docno="lists-004-14489593"
received="Fri Jun 11 14:25:12 2004"
isoreceived="20040611182512"
sent="Wed, 05 Jun 2002 18:56:13 +1200"
isosent="20020605065613"
name="angel white"
email="angelwhite@vault4data.com"
subject="[ietf-charsets] &lt;none&gt;"
id="20040611182512.4F03EA2EB6@frink.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To: undisclosed-recipients:;

SWISS LOTTO AGENCY,ZURICH, SWITZERLAND.
FROM: THE DESK OF THE PROMOTIONS MANAGER,

INTERNATIONAL PROMOTIONS/PRIZE AWARD DEPARTMENT,

REF NUMBER: KPY104532DQ

BATCH: 34/00319/CSA1598

WINNING NOTIFICATION .

We are pleased to inform you that you are among the winner of the
SWISS LOTTO INTERNATIONAL PROMOTION held today the 11th day of june,
2004.

You are attached to ticket number 056-01768-790-459, with serial
number 5043-14 drew the lucky numbers 43-11-44- 87-10-43, which is
among winners in the second category.

You have therefore been approved for a lump sum payment of
US$500,000.00 [Five Hundred Thousand United State Dollars] credited to
file REFERENCE NUMBER: KPY104532DQ.

This is from total prize money of US$20Million which is among the
international winners in this category.

All participants were selected through a computer ballot system drawn
from 15,000 names from Australia,New Zealand, America, Europe, North
America and Asia as part of International Promotions Program, which is
conducted annually.

CONGRATULATIONS!!!

Your winning is now deposited with a bank ready for immediate
remittance into your nominated bank account and also insured in your
reference number/ticket and batch number.Due to the mix-up of some
reference numbers and ticket numbers, we ask that you keep this award
strictly confidential from public notice until your claim have been
processes and your money transfer to your nominated bank account. This
is part

of our security protocol to avoid double claiming or unscrupulous acts
by participants of this program.

We hope with a part of your prize, you will participate in our end of
year high stakes US$1.2 billion International Lottery.

To begin your claim, please contact your claim agent; Mr. peterson
james FOREIGN SERVICE MANAGER, Email :claimagent2002@fsmail.net for
due processing and the remittance of your prize money to your
nominated bank account.

NOTE: In order to avoid unnecessary delays and complications, please
remember to quote your reference and batch numbers in any of your
correspondences with us.

Furthermore, should there be any change of your address, do inform
your claims agent as soon as possible. Any breach confidentiality on
the part of any winners will result to instant disqualification
Congratulations again from all our staffs and thanks for being part of
our promotions program. Be informed also that the deadline for all
claims to be collected is the 19th day of june,2004

Sincerely,

Mrs.Angel White.



