docno="lists-028-8644179"
received="Wed Dec  4 01:08:25 2002"
isoreceived="20021204060825"
sent="Tue, 3 Dec 2002 21:34:36 -0800 (PST)"
isosent="20021204053436"
name="Intro Interactive"
email="podtal@yahoo.com"
subject="Webdesigner For hire"
id="20021204053436.59291.qmail@web14804.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:site-comments@w3.org


Title: Webdesigner Resume Portal

URL: http://www.anycities.com/user/adfunk/

Decription: Looking For Freelancer Web Designer?
Highly Motivated Staff? To Design Your Website? Then
Check his resume at
http://www.anycities.com/user/adfunk/ Web Designer
Resume Who Do Freelance, Web Designing, Animation,
Flash, a Developer who receive out sourcing job
Contact Him Today at podtal@yahoo.com Check His
Portfolio @
http://www.anycities.com/user/adfunk/web_portfolio.html

Keyword: web, designer, malaysia, employment, kerja,
job, vacancy, jobstreet, hotjobs, monster.com,
freelancer, graphic, designer, multimedia,
recruitment, affiliate, coding, design, portal, flash,
adobe, photoshop, asia, asia pacific, advertise,
advertisement, asia job, asia career, asia employment,
career, career resource, career planning, career
search, career site, career test, computer job, create
resume, education career, employer, employment,
employment opportunity, employment asia, finance job,
free job posting, hot job, high tech job, human
resource, international job, internet recruitment, it
job, it recruitment, jobstreet, job, job interview,
job listing, job site, job vacancy, job opening, job
placement, job opportunity, job seeker, job tip, job
survey, job alert, job specialization, job training,
job online, job search, management job, marketing job,
online job search, online recruitment, online
recruitment site, online recruitment service, online
resume database, post advertisement, recruitment,
recruitment agency, resume, resume service, resume
writing, resume sample, salary, skill testing,
singapore, malaysia, india, philippines, australia,
china, hong kong, indonesia, thailand, job, career,
resume, resume posting, job posting, resumes, jobs,
recruiter, headhunter, monster, resume, resumezapper,
resume bank, resume post, search firms, employment,
career, resume distribution, resume blaster, job
search singapore, resume writing, computer jobs,
employment services, online resume builder, freelance,
freelancer, project, telecommuter, telemarketing, KL,
Kuala, Lumpur, Selangor, Serdang, UPM, MTDC,
Multimediacademy, Cosmopoint, Listing, Email, List,
Groups, IRC, Spam, Telemarketing, Marketing, portal,
ecommerce, commerce, RM, free, gaji, akaun, account,
cyber, cyberpunk, counter, strike, cs, japan,
hardcore, develop, developer, java, javascript, asp,
active server page, cj, comission junction, directory,
reka bentuk, mmu, university, course, web casting,
installation, install, software, Databases,
Application Dev, Logo, Graphics, Banner Ads, browser,
elance, outsourcing, source, specialize, planner,
programmer, wanted, solution, solutions, consultant,
enterprise, web hosting, free web hosting, web
template, mailing list, services, management, 2002,
2003, global, companies, marketplace, market place,
small business, discover, credit card, paypal, ebay,
case study, student, career, bid, mp3, casino,
napster, yahoo, gnutella, cars, games, britney,
spears, shrimp, recipe, pokemon, who+is+bill+gates,
venture+capital+database, search+engine, procura,
euro+2000, hotmail, music, maps,
how+far+is+it+from+antares+to+sirius, chat, win,
warez, travel, jokes, online+gaming, jobs, apple,
free, gifts, toys, cat, lyrics, wallpaper, cats,
shopping, dogs, ampland, xml, icq, web+design,
search+engines, weather, mediaeservice, car, perl,
real+estate, web+hosting, ebay, eminem, pay pal,
paypal, yahoo pay direct, check, credit card, hr,
human resources, quotation, ict, information
technology, web development 


__________________________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Mail Plus - Powerful. Affordable. Sign up now.
http://mailplus.yahoo.com



