docno="lists-090-3568998"
received="Wed May 22 09:45:59 2002"
isoreceived="20020522134559"
sent="Wed, 22 May 2002 14:44:06 -0700"
isosent="20020522214406"
name="Scott Ogun"
email="scottogun1@myself.com"
subject="Transaction"
id="200205221345.g4MDjY305925@sophia.inria.fr"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:<wai-tech-comments@w3.org>


It is my humble pleasure to write this letter irrespective of the fact
that you do not know me. However, I came to know of you in my private
search for a reliable and trustworthy person that can handle a
confidential transaction of this nature in respect of this, I got your
contact through an uprooted search on the internet. Though I know that a
transaction of this magnitude will make any one apprehensive and worried,
but I am assuring you that all will be well at the end of the day. 

Let me start by first introducing myself properly to you. I am Scott Ogun,
I work in a bank at the private banking sector

A foreign customer of my bank died under mysterious circumstances in a air
crash, until his death five years ago, He had a closing balance of
USD$20.5M (Twenty Million Five Hundred Thousand United States Dollars)
which the bank now unquestionably expects to be claimed by any of his
available foreign next of kin. Or, alternatively be donated to a
discredited trust fund for arms and ammunition at a military war college
here in Nigeria. The banking ethics here does not allow such money to stay
more than six year, because the money will be recalled to the bank
treasury as unclaimed after this period. The bank will now have the right
to do as they please with this money.

Fervent valuable efforts made by my Bank to get in touch with any next of
kin (he had no known wife and children) has been unsuccessful. The
management under the influence of our chairman and board of directors, are
making arrangement for the fund to be declared "UNCLAIMABLE " and then be
subsequently donated to the trust fund for Arms and Ammunition which will
further enhance the course of war in Africa and the world in general. 

In order to avert this negative development. I now seek for your
permission to have you stand as the next of kin. So that the fund
(USD$20.5M), would be subsequently transferred and paid into your bank
account as the beneficiary next of kin  I am assuring you a 100% risk free
involvement. Your share would be 40% of the total amount. You should not
entertain any fear as all modalities for fund transfer can be finalized
within five banking days, after you apply to the bank as the next of kin.

If this proposal meets your approval, then kindly contact me immediately
via my e-mail (scottogun@rediffmail.com) furnishing me with your most
confidential telephone, fax and e-mail, so I can forward to you the
relevant details of this transaction. 

Thank you in advance for your anticipated cooperation. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Mr. Scott Ogun

N.B  
(If you have received this email in error, please accept my apology.  If
you no longer wish to receive email from me, please do not reply.  Your
request will be honored).



