docno="lists-088-1767374"
received="Thu Jul 11 11:25:33 2002"
isoreceived="20020711152533"
sent="Thu, 11 Jul 2002 16:25:50 -0000"
isosent="20020711162550"
name="uche c"
email="mruche@eudoramail.com"
subject="It is with trust and confidence that I make this proposal to you."
id="200207111525.LAA11664@tux.w3.org"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:<wai-site-comments@w3.org>


MR.UCHECHIM  CHRISTOPHER
BRANCH MANAGER ECO INT'L
BANK NIG.PLC
DIRECT phone:+234-8033-271519

Re-Funds Transferation

It is with trust and confidence that I make this
urgent important proposal to you in view of the fact
that you are trust worthy and reliable.  Currently I
have a business that I think would be of interest to
you and your company.

I am the Western District Bank Manager of  ECO
INTERNATIONAL BANK 
of Nigeria PLC.  However, there is an account opened
in the bank in 1980 and since 1996, no body has
operated this account again.  After careful
investigation, I discovered that the owner of this
account was the president of ARC CONSTRUCTION PTY LTD,
a
foreigner who died in 1996.  the account has no
beneficiary at present and investigation and proved
that this company does not know anything about the
account,  the total amount is (Twenty Five
Point Five Million United States Dollars Only).

In light of the above fact, I need your assistance to
handle this transaction with you,thereby providing
your bank account or any account of your choice where
this fund will be remitted.  Your assistance as a
foreigner is necessary because the management is ready
to welcome anybody preferably a foreigner who has the
correct information of the account which I will give
you immediately, if you are capable to conclude this
transaction with me.

Now that the management of the bank has ordered that
all dormant account will be frozen. On the strength of
this order, I wish to make advantage of this situation
and present your company as beneficiary and get it
transferred to your designated account.  

Furthermore, no receiving your positive response, I
will apply for annual leave for our fact to face
meeting in your country for the sharing.  I will give
you 20% of the total fund for your assistance though
the percentage is negotiable and I will not contact
any other person until I am convinced that you are not
interested.

I will like to have your phone and fax number for easy
communication.


Best regards,

MR UCHE CHRISTOHER



