docno="lists-093-14722928"
received="Fri Jun 11 04:47:13 1999"
isoreceived="19990611084713"
sent="11 Jun 99 02:47:10 MDT"
isosent="19990611084710"
name="Paul Derbyshire"
email="pderbysh@usa.net"
subject="Amaya quirks with IE and how to question."
id="19990611084710.12008.qmail@nw179.netaddress.usa.net"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"


To:www-amaya@w3.org

First the question:

How the HECK do you enter a copyright symbol or other special symbol? Other
than editing the source outside of amaya and typing in &copy; there, or
similarly, that is.

Yes I did try using the Char Map applet to insert the symbol. I checked the
copyright symbol's input code and it is alt+0184; I held alt and typed 0184 on
the numpad to insert it, and it inserted a comma instead. It inserts a
copyright symbol into Notepad or Word, so it's a quirk of Amaya that it reacts
like this to attempts to insert special characters -- some would say a bug. I
was hoping Amaya would get the correct character from that key combination and
would intelligently recognize it as a special character and recognize it as
something that should translate as &copy;.

I also looked at the Help option Creating Elements (the closest topic to what
I want, which is CReating Special CHaracters). I also looked at all the
possibly-relevant menu items and found none. I would have expected there to be
a menu item, probably in Types or Edit, named Special Character... that would
pop up a special character input palette resembling the math symbol palette
that is useful when editing equations. Alas, Amaya appears to lack this
feature. (Version 2.0a.)

How are users expected to enter a copyright symbol? Surely not by editing the
source in a third-party app and inserting &copy; there?!


As for the quirks: I've noticed that when IE and AMaya are open at the same
time, there seems to be a weird interaction. Some Amaya windows act funny,
often with their icons vanishing or turning black and white on the task bar;
math palettes may not display or work right; and images may disappear,
becoming invisible while still being clickable and manipulable. When this
happens, IE also acts strangely, displaying garbled Web pages or Web pages
with parts missing, especially tending to garble images and tending to garble
pages that have many images. I think it may be some quirk in the HTML
rendering part of the Windows 98 OS. It is unclear whether it's an OS bug, an
IE bug, or an Amaya bug; your developers may be able to shed more light on it,
assuming they have access to a Windows 98 machine with IE5.

____________________________________________________________________
Get free e-mail and a permanent address at http://www.netaddress.com/?N=1



