docno="lists-008-10428733"
received="Fri Oct  4 20:04:34 2002"
isoreceived="20021005000434"
sent="Fri, 4 Oct 2002 17:04:31 0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20021005000431"
name="france villa"
email="franchevilla2000@yahoo.com"
subject="abt Isah Mohammed"
id="20021005000431.65728.qmail@web13103.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"


To:ietf-discuss@w3.org


Dear Sir,

I'm shawn from Australia.

I seeking for advice for the person mentioned above.

I wonder if you could still remember a letter from "Isah Mohammed" last Nov 2001 called "Help the widow". I received the almost the same letter from this guy and manage to find a simliar copy being sent to you .

I would just want a confirmation from you that this guy is just a silly person whose has anything good to do but mass mailling and the letter is hoax. 

Thanx for your help. Your help is ultimate usefull to me and hope to hear from you soon.

Below is the letter he send to you last year.

best regards,

Shawn

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Message-ID: <20011110224801.38373.qmail@web20904.mail.yahoo.com>
Date: Sat, 10 Nov 2001 14:48:01 -0800 (PST)
From: isa mohammed <&References=">isa_m112001@yahoo.com>
To: &References=">ietf-discuss@w3.org
Subject: Help The Widow

FROM,Isah Mohammed
.  
Contact info;
PHONE#:(874)-762864166,
FAX#:  {874}-762864168,
JOHANNESBURG-SOUTH AFRICA


Dear Sir,

FUND MANAGEMENT 

I humbly wish to seek your assistance in matter that
is very important and needs utmost trust and
confidence. I am Mr.Isah Mohammed
.a close confidant
of
one of South-African most powerful family. The wife of
former top Government official, a Gold magnet
{Original Owner of GRUGGER GOLD CO.}, i.e. late CHIEF
BAMUNGA SANGO MBEKI, former Junior Minister of Mines
and Power Federal republic of South-Africa.
Unfortunately, he died soon after handing over because
the new Government wanted to probe his activities
while in office for financial misappropriations.
Presently, all their foreign and local account was
frozen and their assets confiscated.

The wife wishes to move out of South-Africa the sum of
US$42 million along with some large quantity of gold
and diamond, she wishes to invest the aforementioned
sum in viable investment overseas.

For obvious reasons, my client does not want to place
this fund with established financial institution with
the family name for security reasons. It is her desire
that the deal be handled as quietly as possible
without possibility of any leakage to the public or
Government. She has therefore empowered me to find and
negotiate for a reliable and trustworthy foreigner who
can assist us by using his/her name in moving the
money to a foreign safe account and who can assist to
invest the fund properly for the family.

If you agree to act as a fund manager for my client
and the family, I shall release the sum of US$42
million to you if you meet my requirements. The money
is available safe with a private security company
coded and lodged in with a fictitious name. Upon a
favorable response from you, I shall let you know the
steps involve.

Your commission shall be down payment of 15% of the
total sum, that is US$6.3 million and annual 10% of
the after tax returns on investment for the first 5
years. Thereafter,The terms shall be re-negotiated.

If you are capable and willing to participate in this
transaction contact me through my email address OR by
phone for a heart to heart discussion.

NOTE, IF FOR ANY REASON YOU ARE NOT DISPOSED AT MOMENT
TO UNDERTAKE THIS DEAL, LET ME KNOW ON TIME AS TO MAKE
ALTERNATIVE ARRANGEMENT.

I look forward to your earliest reply through my email
In any case, please keep it tight secret.

Best regards
Isah Mohammed

 



---------------------------------
Do you Yahoo!?
Faith Hill - Exclusive Performances, Videos, & more
faith.yahoo.com



