docno="lists-066-16311522"
received="Thu Dec 16 20:11:57 1999"
isoreceived="19991217011157"
sent="Fri, 17 Dec 1999 12:11:09 +1100 (EST)"
isosent="19991217011109"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
subject="Re: Personalized web pages"
id="Pine.SOL.4.10.9912171200060.19355-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="199912161945.LAA04715&#64;netcom.com"
expires="-1"

To: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


I disagree with Scott's central premise that one and the same document can
not, without an unsatisfactory compromise, be both visually appealing and
structurally organised with appropriate markup. Style sheet positioning,
as yet not widely implemented but for which support is now starting to
become available, is designed to address this problem; and in the interim,
one can of course embed proper structural markup within the table
constructs that have been conventionally misused to produce formatting
effects. In the latter scenario, the table can be linearized, thereby
presenting the user with proper structural divisions, lists, paragraphs,
headings, in-line semantics, etc. Mobile devices demand structural and
semantic richness; style sheets support it, and offer the additional
advantage of allowing the author greater control over presentation than is
possible with HTML tables, in a specification that is expected to be
uniformly implemented across user agents and operating systems. The
increasing adoption of XML will only advance the trend toward separating
content and structure from presentation.

Taking these factors into account, Scott's proposal would be a retrograde
move and I do not support it. The guidelines already provide that, where a
document can not otherwise be made accessible, an alternative version may
be created (checkpoint 11.4). Server-side techniques may be included under
this checkpoint, but the basic position should remain unchanged:
alternative versions are a last resort and an interim solution, to be
avoided where possible.



