docno="lists-023-5750775"
received="Tue Jun  1 10:44:07 2004"
isoreceived="20040601144407"
sent="Tue, 1 Jun 2004 09:44:05 -0500"
isosent="20040601144405"
name="Shawn Lawton Henry"
email="shawn@w3.org"
subject="RE: Updated Slide Intro &amp; Req Doc"
id="000501c447e6$e35cb390$948bc418@SLHenry"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="a05210600bcdb1685f33c&#64;[35.10.2.42]"
expires="-1"

To:"'Charmane K. Corcoran'"<corcora1@msu.edu>,<public-wai-eo-site@w3.org>



> Updated versions of Slide Intro page and Req Doc attached.  It CSS in
> the Rec doc is the one that came with the file Shawn sent originally. 
> If I remove it the formatting changes too drastically so I left it as 
> it was originally.

Charmane,

I'm not sure what you are trying to say about the stylesheet? Could you
clarify?

Below are suggestions. Would you be able to review those this week and
prepare for discussion on Monday?

~ Shawn

---

Intro page:

1. consider including more direction

- I think overall it needs just a little bit more explanation. Image you
have never encountered a W3C slide set. What do you want to tell people
about what they are going to get?

- Also, would be nice to explain just a little bit that they can
download  http://www.w3.org/Talks/WAI-Intro/all.htm and make changes and
then create their own slide set with Slidemaker.

-  How about adding a bit about permission to use (such as in the
business case overview).

2. edits

- delete the <p>Use the right-arrow button ("on to..." link) to go to
the next slide. because you already have it in list above.

- capitalize "Web" throughout (as is W3C style)

- remove link to "Tips for Using these Slides" since we decided to
delete that slide

- change "site" to "slide set" in: " This site will help answer many of
these web accessibility questions:" so it's " This slide set will help
answer many of these web accessibility questions:"

- Would it be better to swap the order of the instructions for using the
slides? That is, change "Use the right-arrow button ("On to..." link) to
go to the next page." to "To go to the next page, use the right-arrow
button ("On to..." link)"

- I think it would be good to say that the buttons are on the top right
and to include an image of the buttons. Also, I think it would be good
to explain what options the "change style" button toggles through.

- consider adding subheadings (<h2>s), such as "Introduction". "Contents
of Slide Set", "How to Use the Online Slides", "Slide Making Tool",
"Editor and Comments"

- remove "by Judy Brewer and EOWG Participants" from the H1, and clean
it up at the bottom (perhaps like Matt has it in UAAG intro?)

- add <hr /> and <h2>Document Information</h2> at the bottom, like other
new pages

- per Blossom's comments a while ago, is "For a complete index of
slides, go to Overview of Web Accessibility." really a table on
contents? is that different from "Use the lined button ("Table of
Contents" link) to go to the table of contents."? [I'm typing this
offline on an airplane so I can't go check]

3. clean up markup

- convert to XHTML & fix meta (e.g., "East Lansing MI, USA">

- clean up the markup, e.g.: "<h1 align="left">Introduction
     to the <br>
   Online Overview of the Web Accessibility
   Initiative<span class="slideList"><br>
   <small>by</small> <i>Judy Brewer and EOWG
Participants</i></span></h1>"
should be:
"<h1>...</h1>" without all the markup inbetween

 and "<div class="slidebody">" is not needed

===

Change Log: WAI Online Overview Introduction

1. capitalize "Web" throughout (as is W3C style), such as in "The slide
set is an introduction to the Web Accessibility Initiative and to web
accessibility in general." and "Primary audience for this document is
anyone visiting the Web Accessibility Initiative web site. For the most
part, it is expected that people new to web accessibility would be
interested in going through the slide set."

2. audience edits:

current: "Primary audience for this document is anyone visiting the Web
Accessibility Initiative web site. For the most part, it is expected
that people new to web accessibility would be interested in going
through the slide set."

I think this audience is people who are new to Web accessibility or new
to WAI. I don't think "anyone visiting the Web Accessibility Initiative
web site" is target audience because people who already know about WAI
are not a target audience for this page or the slide set.

"Secondary audiences include people using the slide set as the basis of
their presentations in various situations or those attending conferences
and special sessions where this slide set is used as talking points."

I wonder which is primary and which is secondary? Probably not worth
debating, and therefore not worth differentiating. If agree, then can
list both under audience, without distinguishing between primary &
secondary.

"... or those attending conferences and special sessions where this
slide set is used as talking points."

This is an indirect audience (which would be good to note)!

3. related pages

Which related pages? Slidemaker info and the all.html file? What about
listing them here. 

4. edits

- "It also puts the directions on how to use the slides outside of the
slide set the convenience of the user." needs editing

- also, could move the info under "Approach" to "Purpose" and delete the
approach section if you want.

- footer needs editing

5. about info under "Requested Changes from May 10, 2004"

- WSTF and EOWG both agreed to move it out, which needs to be indicated
here

6. general formatting

Do you want to make the items unordered lists as are other changelogs?



