docno="lists-070-6866823"
received="Thu Aug 22 17:53:23 2002"
isoreceived="20020822215323"
sent="Thu, 22 Aug 2002 17:57:03 -0400"
isosent="20020822215703"
name="by way of Wendy A Chisholm"
email="mooredlm@att.net"
subject="Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 - Deaf/Hard of Hearing Consumers"
id="5.1.0.14.2.20020822175643.0241fd00@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-gl@w3.org


W3C-WAI / Others,

I came across the W3C web site today and learned that
the Draft Web Content Accessibility Content Guidelines
2.0 was recently released: Due to the fact that I had
submitted a suggestion last fall - upon reviewing the
guidelines, I don't believe I saw any suggestions or
recommendations that allow consumers to specify their
preferred method of communication.

If it's in there under Guideline # 5, it does not seem
to provide enough specifics or clear as to the need for
consumers to use ttys and relay services, etc. Perhaps
you might include example(s) and/or refer to Web Form
Techniques or something like that.

This goes back to the recommendation I had submitted
last fall, which I still believe is important -
especially for companies that interact and do business
with consumers. I'm not saying it should be required or
strictly enforced, but should be "recommended" and be
pointed out.  Businesses themselves can benefit from
this recommendation.

This suggestion was also included in the recent book
published by Jim Thatcher / Glasshaus in "Constructing
Accessible Web Sites".

Again, the suggestion can be viewed at - which has been
updated from time to time.

http://www.geocities.com/moorechi/accessibility/index.ht
m

Please review and I look forward to discussing this
matter further, don't hesitate to contact me if you have
any questions.

Also, take notice that my email address has changed.

Again, Thank you for your time and attention to this
matter.

--
Donald L. Moore
mooredlm@att.net 



