docno="lists-065-14375645"
received="Fri Sep 18 23:45:46 1998"
isoreceived="19980919034546"
sent="Fri, 18 Sep 1998 23:42:12 -0400"
isosent="19980919034212"
name="Judy Brewer"
email="jbrewer@w3.org"
subject="New WAI Page Author Guidelines Working Draft goes to /TR page"
id="3.0.5.32.19980918234212.009737a0@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org
Cc:w3c-wai-gl@w3.org

WAI Interest Group Members:

The Page Author Guidelines Working Group today (September 18, 1998)
published a substantially updated Working Draft
<http://www.w3.org/TR/WD-WAI-PAGEAUTH> on the W3C technical reports page.
Thanks to WAI Interest Group members for your comments during the review
period, and thank you to the Working Group members for your hard work.

If you have a link to WAI guidelines on any of your Web sites, please make
sure it is to this latest version.

This version replaces the previous Working Draft's "required" and
"recommended" designations with three different "priority" levels
<http://www.w3.org/TR/WD-WAI-PAGEAUTH/#rating>.  It reduces the number of
guidelines necessary to ensure an accessible Web site, explains why each
guideline is needed, and describes general techniques for implementing each
guideline. New appendices include groupings of the guidelines by priority.
The Working Draft is also available in a non-normative tabular version.

In addition the Working Group has produced a draft techniques document,
linked from the guidelines, which includes detailed explanations and code
examples. 

The Page Author Guidelines Working Group <w3c-wai-gl@w3.org> welcomes
feedback on this version of the guidelines, and particularly seeks feedback
from those involved in page authoring and content development.

Regards,

Judy



------
Judy Brewer    jbrewer@w3.org    +1.617.258.9741    http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)    

For questions related to w3c-wai-ig@w3.org, e-mail jbrewer@w3.org

To unsubscribe from w3c-wai-ig@w3.org, e-mail w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org
with "unsubscribe" as subject



