docno="lists-002-6952219"
received="Thu Apr  3 09:59:34 2003"
isoreceived="20030403145934"
sent="3 Apr 2003 15:58:46 +0100"
isosent="20030403145846"
name="Click URL"
email="click_url@rock.com"
subject="Discover great singles near you at Personals Youll love Discover great singles near you Search personals with pictures and post your own free ad to make a connection"
id="3fff301c2f9f1$87241a80$4801020a@corp.load.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:"html-tidy"<html-tidy@w3.org>

New to Yahoo! Personals? Take a Tour. The New York Times: Personals I am
a, Man. Seeking a, Woman. Between, 18. Meet your Match Anonymously and
Securely, Locally or I am a, Female. Seeking a, Male. Between, 18
Personal ads with photos, anonymous email, advice and date ideas. Dating
Inn Personals - Search Personals, Post Free Personal Ad . [ Webmasters
]. Add Site Resources. Dating Inn Personals. Women, Men. Post a FREE
Personal Ad at IWantU. Alt Personals View Huge Database of FREE Personal
Ads. 
 
http://www.geocities.com/adfunk01/articlepersonals.htm

personal, personal yahoo, adult personal, loan personal, free personal,
ad personal, personal check, finance personal, bad credit loan personal,
gay personal, adult free personal, ads free personal, personal sex,
personal quest, personal trainer, personal photo, page personal, cam
personal web, home page personal, page personal web, personal picture,
firewall personal, personal site web, free personal totally, ads adult
personal, health personal, bankruptcy personal, care personal, tiny
personal firewall, personal profile, nude personal, personal swinger,
personal statement, personal creation, dating personal, loan personal
unsecured, ads adult free personal, online personal, computer personal,
personal training, injury personal, personal server web, married
personal, loan online personal, lesbian personal, msn personal, free
online personal, adult excite personal, personal teen, excite personal,
chef personal, free gay personal, aol personal, adult personal yahoo,
bbw personal, cd personal player, organizer personal, free personal sex,
gothic personal, adult personal sex, firewall norton personal, 2003
firewall norton personal, budget personal, bad credit loan people
personal, injury lawyer personal, personal sexy, personal shopper,
assistant personal, personal web, personal check design, certification
personal trainer, information personal, personal spanking, order
personal check, adds personal, personal pic, assistant digital personal,
law personal school statement, erotic personal, interracial personal,
personal russian, asian personal, personal red, personal watercraft,
address personal, adult excite personal show slide, attorney injury
personal, bank check personal, personal protection, 800 numbers
personal, personal transgender, development personal, personal shemale,
sygate personal firewall, personal transexual, certification personal
training, personal security, hygiene personal, personal dvd player

http://www.geocities.com/adfunk01/articlepersonals.htm


__________________________________________________
You Rock! Your E-mail should, too. Visit Rock.com!














