docno="lists-062-14156594"
received="Fri Oct 31 04:29:34 2003"
isoreceived="20031031092934"
sent="Fri, 31 Oct 2003 09:26:49 +0000"
isosent="20031031092649"
name="Jon Dodd"
email="jon@bunnyfoot.com"
subject="Investment  considerations"
id="5.2.1.1.0.20031031085233.0292a9f8@bunnyfoot.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-eo@w3.org



I have a meeting in London this morning but should be able to make it back 
in time to take part in the phone conference but please accept my apologies 
if my meeting extends or (as is often the case) the trains decide that the 
wrong types of leaves are on the tracks and are delayed.

Some comments on Investment considerations below:

First paragraph can we highlight 'result in cost savings later'. + it gets 
rather lost in the sentence. To make this more direct we could rephrase to; 
Most of the costs are early investments at an organisational level. These 
initial investments typically result in cost savings later. (with emphasis 
from initial to savings)

First paragraph - 'Organisational level' & Project level' are somewhat 
ambiguous - to me - what exactly do these mean? Can we use simple english 
here?

Minor point - punctuation after each 'human resource related costs' bullet 
points.

retrofitting - Agreed that retrofitting is not the right way to go about 
things, however in the real world it is often the only solution in the 
short and medium term. In this case we should not put people off actioning 
improved accessibility to existing sites. Can we point out that: yes its 
not the ideal but improved accessibility in existing sites is worthwhile 
and will go someway towards laying the foundations for when it is practical 
to incorporate accessibility as an integrated part of more extensive 
redevelopment.

Upgrade costs - agree that the associated decrease in maintenance time of 
CSS should be included.

Jon



