docno="lists-101-13171237"
received="Mon Dec  8 03:30:34 2003"
isoreceived="20031208083034"
sent="Mon, 08 Dec 2003 02:26:53 -0600"
isosent="20031208082653"
name="Curt Arnold"
email="carnold@houston.rr.com"
subject="LS: Oracle XDK &amp; Xerces results matrix"
id="3FD435CD.6060508@houston.rr.com"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:www-dom-ts@w3.org


I added a target (dom3-xdk-ls) to the build file that will change the 
LS* interface names back to DOM* interface names so that the current L&S 
tests can be run against the latest public beta of the Oracle 10g beta 
XML Development Kit (XDK) parser  and improved a lot of the test 
descriptions and subjects.  An updated dom3-ls.zip and the XDK variant 
(dom3-ls-xdk.jar) can be downloaded from 
http://homepage.mac.com/curt.arnold/FileSharing1.html.

I've also added another Ant file (runtests.xml) that will run and 
produce a results matrix for the tests.  Currently, only dom3-ls for XDK 
and Xerces-J are supported, but the idea is to expand this to all the 
modules and implementations.

dom3-ls-results.html 
(http://home.houston.rr.com/curta/dom3-ls-results.html) lists the 
dom3-ls tests that were not passed by both Xerces-J and XDK's parser.  
Future versions of the results will contain counts of the total tests 
and tests passed by all implementations.  Currently only about 1/3 of 
the tests pass on both implementations.

Xerces-J does not support LSParser.parseWithContext and asynchronous 
parsing.  XDK did not appear to have a mechanism to specify an resource 
resolver and ignored serialization filters and the 'xml-declaration' 
parameter.

A lack of two independent implementations of asynchronous parsing could 
be an issue for proceeding to recommendation.

I plan to attack the coverage issue tomorrow and should have a decent 
set of issues for the next WG conference call.



 



