docno="lists-016-2453568"
received="Thu Mar 13 13:23:21 2003"
isoreceived="20030313182321"
sent="Thu, 13 Mar 2003 18:22:46 0000"
isosent="20030313182246"
name="Richard Ishida"
email="ishida@w3.org"
subject="MINUTES: I18n GEO teleconference 030312"
id="003001c2e98d$8c5eaa70$cf01000a@w3c40upc3ma3j2"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To:<public-i18n-geo@w3.org>



MINUTES 

W3C I18n GEO Phone Conference
12 March 2003

Present: Richard (chair, scribe), Russ, Tex, Martin
Regrets: Steve


New Actions
============

ACTION: TT, RI need to recontact Bill Hall 

ACTION: RI to send invitation to Gerald Edgar, who observed during the
Tech Plen

ACTION: RI to follow up tommorrow with Barry Caplan.

ACTION: Russ, follow-up wrt possible new member from Trados

ACTION: RI to propose some new teleconf times to cope with daylight
savings at next week's meeting.

ACTION: RI to ping Suzanne again.



Prior Action Items
==============

ACTION: RI, set up an area on the W3C site for people to post proposals,
and give people access. 
>> In progress

ACTION: All, send in any ideas for a better name than 'rule'. 
>> Tex proposes "guidepoint", RI has been using "directive" lately.
Take a decision next week.

Action: Richard, look at ways of making the document print with a
smaller font, while avoiding any WAI issues.
>> no movement

Richard: Merge discussion doc and decisions into a framework doc (reqts
doc) & also review and respond to WAI requirements doc  
>> DONE

All: Send in content proposals and proposals relating to structure of
template..
>> DONE at FTF

All: send in pointers to existing guidelines 
>> Ongoing

Suzanne: put together a list of short term vs. long term goals related
to education and outreach - send it to us for discussion 
>> No news



Dependencies
===========
None.


New members
===========
Phil Arko joins today from Siemens - this is a contact from Nuray Aykin,
who was contacted by Russ.
Welcome Phil !

Contact made by Russ with Trados - ACTION: Russ, follow-up wrt possible
new member from Trados
ACTION: TT, RI need to recontact Bill Hall 
Christian Lieske from SAP responded - he's fully booked until at least
July, but sent the invitation to other SAP people
RI spoke with Hakon Lie, Opera, at Tech Plen - they are quite busy, RI
to follow up
ACTION: RI to send invitation to Gerald Edgar, who observed during the
Tech Plen
RI spoke with Ivan Herman, Head of Offices for W3C.  Ivan wants to get
various office staff more involved.  RI to present to them on 21st March
during offices telecon.
Barry Caplan of i18n.com is also interested in joining.  ACTION: RI to
follow up tommorrow.



Future meetings
============
Next FTF:
Will discuss again after Unicode conference.  Brainstormed possibilities
included:
-combine with next Unicode conf in Sept - probably too far out
-do something before the summer break
-combine with a Core TF FTF in Montreal

Future teleconferences:
Agreed: Continue with weekly teleconferences; people should propose (on
the mailing list before the meeting) content topics they wish to discuss
during the teleconferences, and/or Richard will pick an area where we
have no content and we'll brainstorm content on the phone.  If there's
not much to discuss in a particular week, we can end early and get on
with some content development/editing.

Teleconference times are likely to change soon due to daylight savings
(end of March in Europe, beginning of April in US).
ACTION: RI to propose some new teleconf times to cope with daylight
savings at next week's meeting.



Outreach
========
Not much progress made on this recently.
ACTION: RI to ping Suzanne again.
AGENDA ITEM: for next week - what should we be doing?



Next meeting:
==========
Same time, same bridge, next week.

============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/
http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/



