docno="lists-033-7342780"
received="Tue Sep 17 05:21:06 2002"
isoreceived="20020917092106"
sent="Tue, 17 Sep 2002 11:20:39"
isosent="20020917152039"
name="Engr. COULEY BALLEY"
email="couleyballey@mail.com"
subject="URGENT BUSINESS PROPOSAL"
id="200209170921.FAA29529@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org


ENGR.COULEY BALLEY 
DIRECTOR, MINERALS & NATURAL 
RESOURCES, SOUTH AFRICAN MINISTRY OF
MINING & MINERAL RESOURCES, (SMMR)
PRETORIA, REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
Email:couleyballey@mail.com

Sir,

It is my pleasure to write you this letter on behalf
of my colleagues. I have decided to seek a
confidential co-operation with you in executing of a
deal hereunder for the benefit of all parties, and
hope you will keep it confidential because of the
nature of this business.

I am the Director of Mineral and Natural Resources of
the South African Ministry of Mining and Mineral
Resources (SMMR) and I have the co-operation of two
other top officials, we have in our possession an
overdue payment in US funds.

The funds represent some percentage of the contract
executed on behalf of my ministry by a foreign firm,
which we over-invoiced to the amount of
US$15,500,000.00 (Fifteen Million Five Hundred
Thousand United States Dollars.) Though the actual
contract cost has been paid to the original
contractor, leaving the excess balance unclaimed.

Since the present Government is determined to pay
foreign contractors all debts owed, so as to maintain
good relationship with other governments. As a result
we include our bills for approvals with the
co-operation of some officials at the Federal Ministry
of Finance.

We are seeking your assistance as the Beneficiary of
the unclaimed funds, since we are not allowed to
operate a foreign account.

We hereby propose that, should you be willing to
assist us in this transaction your share as
compensation will be 30% while my colleagues and I
receive 60% and 10% for miscellaneous expenses.

This business itself is 100% safe, provided you treat
it with utmost confidentiality. I have reposed my
confidence in you and hope that you will not
disappoint us.

Kindly notify me through my fax:00-874 762-922-941


further details, upon your acceptance of this
proposal.


Best Regards,


Engr. COULEY BALLEY
 N.B;DUE TO CONFIDENTIALITY OF THIS TRANSACTION,YOU CAN
DIVULGE YOUR INFORMATION THROUGH MY FAX-LINE; 00-874 762-922-941



