docno="lists-023-0642347"
received="Mon Apr 26 09:51:06 2004"
isoreceived="20040426135106"
sent="Mon, 26 Apr 2004 15:47:52 +0200"
isosent="20040426134752"
name="Thierry MICHEL"
email="tmichel@w3.org"
subject="Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 04/01/04"
id="000501c42b95$15aac0d0$ad02010a@wistiti"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<public-tt@w3.org>




Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 04/01/04

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Mike Dolan (invited expert) [MD]
  Sean Hayes, Microsoft (SH)
  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]

Regrets

  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, scribe) [GF]
  David Kirby (BBC) [DK]

************************************************************************
Agenda
************************************************************************

1. Input from ISO TC1/SC29/WG11
2. Review Input from Roberto Scano
3. Action Item Review
4. Upcoming F2F Planning

************************************************************************
1. Input from ISO TC1/SC29/WG11
************************************************************************

[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-tt/2004Mar/0000.html

[MD] Describes that earlier draft of MPEG-4 TT made it possible to
have different content forms, but current draft supports only 3GPP TT
format.  This raises concerns as to whether 3GPP is sufficient, but
also forces one to make changes to 3GPP as opposed to adding new
format as would have been possible in earlier draft.

[DS] Agrees.

[GA] Appears to be a consensus.

Action: [MD]/[DS] Draft liaison input by next Thursday (04/08/04).

Action: [GA] Send as liaison input to MPEG once accepted by group.

************************************************************************
2. Discuss Input from Roberto Scano
************************************************************************

[2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Mar/0041.html

Action: [SH] To provide input to list by next telecon.

************************************************************************
3. Action Item Review
************************************************************************

Action: [SH] Will investigate use of media queries in this context and
report back.

[GA] To find context for this action to be sure it is either done or
what is needed.

[SH] Thinks that conclusion was the media queries were right approach.

Action: [DS with help of Paul Nelson and Peter Lofting] Write RFC to
register appropriate opentype/truetype font types as MIME media
types, suggest model of "application/font-<font-type-name>", e.g.,
"application/font-truetype".

[DS] Will work on this coming week.

Action: [GA] Make proposal regarding use of Xlink vocabulary or
"src" attribute.

Action: [GF] Investigate whether to use IRIs instead of URIs?
Note: XPointer and Namespaces in 1.1 use IRIs?

Resolution: We will use IRIs for places where a URI might be
specified.

Action: [SH] Investigate use of "role" vs "class" attribute.

Resolution: Use "role", permit mutliple tokens. Initially target
LF layer usage only, revisit if necessary if use case appears at
PF layer.

Action: [GF] Investigate mechanism for cascading
semantics and whether to support cascading on either or both
logical and presentation flowed vocabularies.

Action: [GA] Draft new requirement on "Integrability"
in general terms that should not impact testing or implementation
requirements.

Action: [GA] incorporate agreed changes into TT-AF-1-0-REQ in
preparation for publishing final W3C Note.

Action: [SH] will review and propose subset of aural parameters
(see R305).

[SH] Work in progress. Will have input by end of April.

Action: [GA] Add figure showing logical structure anticipated
by requirements.

Action: [GA] Add note to R217 and R219 that shows use of data: URI
scheme.

Action: [TM] Find out if xpointer() scheme WD [1] is still being
progressed forward.

[1] http://www.w3.org/TR/xptr-xpointer/#document-order-notation

Closed.

[TM] Response from XML Core People is that is not being progressed.
So we can't rely upon this technology.

Action: [SH] to propose subset with extensions for use in CS
Profile.

[GA] Need to investigate meaning of this action.

Action: [GF] investigate syntax for regions vis-a-vis style.

Remains open.

Action: [DK] To write up short paragraph on uses of
role tokens. Suggest removing or adding as he
progresses.

Partly addressed through recent discussion of MD items. Need
to query [DK] on status.

Action: [TM] to propose and define standard MD attributes.

[TM] Group needs to discuss input doc from [MD] before proceeding.

[GA] Put on agenda for next meeting.

Action: [*] Think about standard MD items (and write something
down and send to list so we can think about it too).

Partially closed, discussion ongoing.

Action: [GA] Need to start planning for June meeting in Japan!

June meeting in Mt. View, CA; but still planning for Sep in Japan.

SYMM Activity overview underway until Apr 14. [TM] encourages
TTWG AC reps to review proposal and send response.

Action: [GA] Post edited draft minutes for previous F2F (02/04)
for review.

Done. Closed.

Action: [TM] consult with W3C Legal to determine whether requirements
exist to explicitly obtain disclosure from past and current public
comments that have resulted in requirements, etc., specifically,
requirement R307. Note that this question is in regard to current
TTWG status under CPP.

Alan reports no current requirement.

Closed.

Action: [TM] review test suites developed by RDF WG, which focused on
authorial intent, to see if some concepts and methodology can be
reused in TTWG context.

Done.

Action: [TM] Will research CR exit criteria and make proposal.

Done.

Action: [SH] to draft standard ready text for subset of xquery.

Work in progress.

Action: [GA] post example file to member reflector.

Done.

Action: [DS] Based on email of 01/14, integrate with fillBehavior as
described in example.

Underway.

Action: [SH] make proposal regarding keeping or removing float style
parameters.

Resolution: Remove these parameters.

Closed.

Action: [*] For module owners, start developing test suite documents
that have feature tests in all necesary context, and no superfluous
context. Follow-on for primary spec editor will be to incorporate
fragments
from these cases, but that will be subsequent to publishing first
internal
draft of integrated spec.

Under way.

Action: [DK] to propose set of MD attributes and provide one paragraph
description for each DM attribute. Begin of process of defining value
spaces for each attribute.

Under way.

************************************************************************
4. Next Meetings
************************************************************************

Normal weekly telecon schedule (Noon Eastern Time); note change in
European times this coming weekend and US in following weekend.

May 10-12 F2F Amsterdam (CWI); start 10:30AM on 10th, end 1800h on 12th
Jun 22-24 F2F Mt View, CA (Microsoft)

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

Resolution: We will use IRIs for places where a URI might be
specified.

Resolution: Use "role", permit mutliple tokens. Initially target
LF layer usage only, revisit if necessary if use case appears at
PF layer.

Resolution: Remove float related style parameters from requirements.

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [SH] Will investigate use of media queries in this context and
report back.

Action: [DS with help of Paul Nelson and Peter Lofting] Write RFC to
register appropriate opentype/truetype font types as MIME media types,
suggest model of "application/font-<font-type-name>", e.g.,
"application/font-truetype".

Action: [GA] Make proposal regarding use of Xlink vocabulary or
"src" attribute.

Action: [GF] Investigate mechanism for cascading
semantics and whether to support cascading on either or both
logical and presentation flowed vocabularies.

Action: [GA] Draft new requirement on "Integrability"
in general terms that should not impact testing or implementation
requirements.

Action: [GA] incorporate agreed changes into TT-AF-1-0-REQ in
preparation for publishing final W3C Note.

Action: [SH] will review and propose subset of aural parameters
(see R305).

Action: [GA] Add figure showing logical structure anticipated
by requirements.

Action: [GA] Add note to R217 and R219 that shows use of data: URI
scheme.

Action: [SH] to propose subset with extensions for use in CS
Profile.

Action: [GF] investigate syntax for regions vis-a-vis style.

Action: [DK] To write up short paragraph on uses of
role tokens. Suggest removing or adding as he
progresses.

Action: [TM] to propose and define standard MD attributes. N.B.
Awaiting further discussion by WG.

Action: [*] Think about standard MD items (and write something
down and send to list so we can think about it too).

Action: [GA] Need to start planning for September meeting in Japan!

Action: [SH] to draft standard ready text for subset of xquery.

Action: [DS] Based on email of 01/14, integrate with fillBehavior as
described in example.

Action: [*] For module owners, start developing test suite documents
that have feature tests in all necesary context, and no superfluous
context. Follow-on for primary spec editor will be to incorporate
fragments from these cases, but that will be subsequent to publishing
first internal draft of integrated spec.

Action: [DK] to propose set of MD attributes and provide one
paragraph description for each DM attribute. Begin of process of
defining value spaces for each attribute.

Action: [MD]/[DS] Draft liaison input by next Thursday (04/08/04).

Action: [GA] Send as liaison input to MPEG once accepted by group.

Action: [SH] To provide input on alternative content when style
is unrealizable to list by next telecon. See [2].

[2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Mar/0041.html

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

Issue: Whether to use XLink vocabulary, e.g., as used consistently by
SVG, or use "src" attribute as apparently will be done in XHTML2?

Issue: Probably want to permit in logical content mode the selection
of content based on generic XML features of non-TT namespace
descriptive markup, e.g., for applying style and timing semantics, in
which case an appropriate TT container element shall be implied based
on nearest ancestor TT namespace element.

Issue: Need to think about cascading semantics; how to express, how to
apply, etc. Possibly use CSS semantics here as well.

Issue (2004-03-05): Whether to allow block as immediate child of
inline? N.B. XSL-FO does allow this. [GA] showed example of renmoji
(horizontal block in vertical Japanese lines).

*** URIs ***

[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-tt/2004Mar/0000.html
[2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Mar/0041.html

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Thierry MICHEL
W3C/ERCIM



