docno="lists-085-14258637"
received="Thu Oct  4 15:11:06 2001"
isoreceived="20011004191106"
sent="Thu, 04 Oct 2001 15:10:04 -0400"
isosent="20011004191004"
name="Ian B. Jacobs"
email="ij@w3.org"
subject="Raw minutes from 4 October 2001 UAWG teleconf"
id="3BBCB40B.1E919B60@w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

4 October 2001 UAWG teleconference

Agenda announcement: 
 http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001OctDec/0001
 
Participants: Jon Gunderson (Chair), Ian Jacobs (Scribe), Denis Anson,
Lee Bateman (lee_bateman@hp.com), Tim Lacy, David Poehlman,
Harvey Bingham

Regrets: Jim Allan
 Absent: Gregory Rosmaita, Rich Schwerdtfeger, Mickey Quenzer

Previous meeting: 20 Sep 2001
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001JulSep/0272

Next meeting: 11 October
Next face-to-face: 22-23 October

Reference document 12 September Candidate Recommendation:
  http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/CR-UAAG10-20010912/
 
====================================================================

0. /* Lee Bateman introduces himself */

LB: My focus primarily on printers, but we are interested in making
all of our products accessible. Also, counterpart Paul Gifford on West
Coast.

------------------------
1. FTF meeting / agenda
------------------------

DA: Probably can't travel to Seattle. Might be able to set up
videoconferencing at the college. This is closer for DP than Boston
is.

LB: I can't go across the street... I may be able to join by
videoconf.

DP: Might be able to get to Boston as well.

HB: I can go to MIT.

JG: In terms of the agenda: we will probably have people in different
time zones participating. We may shift things around based on
availability.

IJ: Lofton Henderson may want to join this part of the meeting as well
(co-chair of QA Working Group at W3C).

TL: From MS, same people will attend: Rob Relyea, Nate Boon (test),
and Kathy Demaree (WMP).

JG: I'm hoping some people from RealNetworks will be able to attend
the meeting (not sure yet).

JG: We need to contact people who registered for Sept that they need
to contact us if they expect to attend.

Meeting page:
http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/2001/10/ua-meeting

JG: It would be good to track contact information for each site where
videoconf will be.

IJ: I think Jon Ferraiolo can attend graphics part of ftf meeting by
teleconf.

DP: Mike Calvo can't attend ftf meeting 22-23 October.

JG: I don't think that Jill Thomas or Loretta Reid will be able to
attend.

---------------------
2. Test Suites Update
---------------------

LB: My background is in testing (from a software/hardware basis).
Need to get down to an expected result.

IJ: I spoke with Lofton Henderson. Am examining various frameworks for
this.

HB: The ERWG now has around 600 test-suites oriented to WCAG 1.0.
Tests are numbered to point back to provisions in WCAG 1.0. 

-----------------------
3.Implementation Report
http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/implementation/report-cr2
-----------------------

"How to do an evaluation of a user agent document"
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001OctDec/0006

JG: If you can do a review with a developer, you can facilitate the
process. 

JG: Have people be using the implementation report?

/* Discussion of different views */

IJ: I think that single-product views would also be useful.

/* Lee leaves */

HB: What happens if we don't get 2-3 checkpoints implemented?

JG: There will be several options down the road.
Our goals right now should be to show developers what we want
them to do, and to provide them with support materials. 

JG: We also need to be hearing from developers what they need
to make our document more useful to them.

-----------------
Closed action items
-----------------

1.jg: draw up a "how to do an evaluation" draft.
   source:
http://lists.w3.org/archives/public/w3c-wai-ua/2001julsep/0272 

Done: http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001OctDec/0006

-----------------
Open action items
-----------------

1.ij: find out about availability of videoconf equipment availability at
w3c
   source:
http://lists.w3.org/archives/public/w3c-wai-ua/2001julsep/0272 

Status: Awaiting reply.

3.jg: talk about jg's tool and earl integration at wai cg.
   source:
http://lists.w3.org/archives/public/w3c-wai-ua/2001julsep/0188 

4.jg: review netscape version 6.x 
   source:
http://lists.w3.org/archives/public/w3c-wai-ua/2001julsep/0191 

5.ja: find out if ja and rs can meet in the same place in austin
   source:
http://lists.w3.org/archives/public/w3c-wai-ua/2001julsep/0272 

6.ja: work on a comparison document of uaag and section 508 and format
in uaag style (see ian's comparison:

   http://lists.w3.org/archives/public/w3c-wai-ua/2001janmar/0561)
   source:
http://lists.w3.org/archives/public/w3c-wai-ua/2001julsep/0272 

7.gr: contact dolphin 
   source:
http://lists.w3.org/archives/public/w3c-wai-ua/2001julsep/0188 

8.tl: review initial implementation report for ie and comment
   source:
http://lists.w3.org/archives/public/w3c-wai-ua/2001julsep/0191 

-- 
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org)   http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Tel:                     +1 718 260-9447



