docno="lists-015-1181918"
received="Tue Jul 30 06:36:21 2002"
isoreceived="20020730103621"
sent="Tue, 30 Jul 2002 11:34:31 +0100 (BST)"
isosent="20020730103431"
name="Libby Miller"
email="Libby.Miller@bristol.ac.uk"
subject="SWAD-Europe  workpackages, deliverables and effort spreadsheet"
id="Pine.GSO.4.44.0207301124370.17139100000@mail.ilrt.bris.ac.uk"
charset="USASCII"
expires="1"

To:public-esw@w3.org




Hi all,

I've created a comma-separated variable file which works with Excel:

http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/Europe/plan/workpackages/live/rdf/_deliv_detail.csv

This is generated from several RDF files:

http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/Europe/plan/workpackages/live/rdf/_esw_projdata.rdf
http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/Europe/plan/workpackages/live/rdf/partners.rdf
http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/Europe/plan/workpackages/live/rdf/whodoeswhat.rdf
(the last came from the face to face)

using a Ruby program (with Dan's help):

http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/Europe/plan/workpackages/live/bin/deliv-start-end.rb

Kate will use this as the basis for her calculations about who needs to
deliver how much effort on each workpackage and deliverable and when, so
please have a look at it and check that it makes sense (read the
information below first).

For each workpackage, it shows calculated deliverable effort per
partner. From this I've calculated start month for each partner,
assuming 1FTE from each partner.

The calculation is as follows:

Where a person is specified as lead in a deliverable in

http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/Europe/plan/workpackages/live/rdf/whodoeswhat.rdf

then the effort specified in the deliverable description is that
partner's total effort for the deliverable.
That effort also determines the duration of the deliverable.

So, for WP4 we have 2 deliverables, one is this:

[[
Month 4: (4.1: xml_graph_serialization_report) Public document
describing the then state of the art concerning XML graph serialization
syntaxes for example in RDF, Web Ontologies and SOAP. (4 months, report,
Pub.)
]]

4 months is assigned to this deliverable in this description.

From
http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/Europe/plan/workpackages/live/rdf/whodoeswhat.rdf

I find that the lead is danbri (and so W3C), and that various partners
are interested in it.

For example ILRT is interested in 4.1 and 4.2 and has 6 months effort in
the WP, so I've just divided that total of 6 by 2 to get the
per-deliverable effort for ILRT where ILRT is not the lead but is
interested. Obviously this is very simplistic, but could be changed - I
think the spreadsheet is probably the place for that though.

The start date for those interested but not leading is simply the end
date for the deliverable minus their calculated effort (i.e. it assumes
1FTE). So for 4.1 and the ILRT, since the end month is 4, and the
effort is 3 then the start month is 1. I thought this might be useful
for calculating how much effort each partner needs to account for every
3 months.

The file is ordered so that the sum of deliverables for any partner on
any WP plus unassigned effort should equal total effort on that WP for
that partner - so this is a constraint that could be added to the
spreadsheet. It should be comparatively easy to create a spreadsheet
cell that shows which deliverables are happening at any given point.

There is unassigned effort for some partners - this is effort which was
neither assigned through lead nor through interest, and needs to be
assigned (maybe by increasing FTE) or moved to a different WP. Where it
is negative, then that partner has been overassigned for that WP at
FTE1.

Finally I included information about the start and the lead for each
deliverable, and also a list of email addresses of leads and those
interested. I also included a calculated start for each  WP: this is the
earliest any deliverable in the WP starts. Obviously this could change
depending on the FTE amount included in each WP for each partner. There
is also a start date specified in each html WP file, e.g.
http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/Europe/plan/workpackages/live/esw-wp-6.html,
but I think the calculated ones are more accurate.

I hope this is useful to people. Let me know if you think there are
incorrect details and about any changes you would like to make (e.g. FTE
levels), as I'd like to feed any changes back to the html where they
came from to keep things consistent.

cheers

Libby



