docno="lists-068-12478199"
received="Thu Jan 25 03:15:00 2001"
isoreceived="20010125081500"
sent="Thu, 25 Jan 2001 19:14:48 +1100 (EST)"
isosent="20010125081448"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
subject="Issues arising from checkpoint map: some suggestions"
id="Pine.SOL.4.10.10101251900470.25239-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


The following brief notes may resolve some of the issues identified in
this week's meeting agenda:

WCAG 1.0 checkpoints 4.1 and 4.3: These are special cases of providing
logical structure and semantics in markup or in a data model. They should
be noted in the techniques relevant to the specific technologies to which
they apply (e.g., (X)HTML, SVG, etc.).

WCAG 1.0 checkpoint 9.1: An application of WCAG 2.0 checkpoint 1.1 and
also relevant to the proper use of navigation mechanisms. Similar
considerations apply to SVG, which allows regions of an image to be
identified and described individually.

WCAG 1.0 checkpoint 11.3: this is really a technique for satisfying other
requirements rather than an access requirement in itself; it belongs in
the discussion of server-side techniques (in various contexts, with
examples and discussion).

WCAG 1.0 checkpoint 13.2: again, this is a means of satisfying other
requirements; it belongs in the techniques, with relevant illustrations
and explanations, rather than as a checkpoint.

WCAG 1.0 checkpoint 5.3: A case of "using markup correctly according to
specification", with a technology-specific exception permitting "layout
tables" in HTML, under the condition that they linearize properly.

WCAG 1.0 checkpoint 5.4: a means of mittigating the consequences of the
exception in checkpoint 5.3; as such it should appear in the HTML-specific
techniques as part of the discussion of (what was) checkpoint 5.3 in WCAG
1.0.

WCAG 1.0 checkpoint 2.2: belongs under "use of presentation to emphasize
structure", I suppose, though it doesn't fit at all well in that
framework.



