docno="lists-086-12029668"
received="Tue Aug 19 20:13:23 1997"
isoreceived="19970820001323"
sent="Wed, 20 Aug 1997 10:09:52 +1000 (AEST)"
isosent="19970820000952"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
subject="Re: Addition to guidelines"
id="Pine.SUN.3.95.970820094803.271A-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="199708191212.OAA29718&#64;www47.inria.fr"
expires="-1"

To: WAI Working Group<w3c-wai-wg@w3.org>


What Daniel is suggesting, I think, is that once the necessary guidelines
have been written, and HTML has evolved so as to be more medium
independent, authors need only concern themselves with a single member of
the tripple which T.V. Raman defines, namely the HTML markup. The
functionality of user agents and access agents is an extremely important
issue which must be addressed as part of the WAI process, but HTML authors
should not be required or expected to take into account what I earlier
described as the idiosyncrasies of specific implementations. There should
be a single, well marked up document which can with equal effectiveness be
presented graphically on screen, printed, represented by means of a
braille display, rendered in audio, etc. Experience has shown that
recommendations which detract from the visual aesthetics of a document
will not be enthusiastically endorsed by web content providers, for
example the "one link per line" idea or the d-link suggestion. The
preferable alternative is to emphasize the distinction, which is already
inherent in HTML, between appearance and semantic content, to take full
advantage of the style sheet mechanism and to develop braille and audio
formatting software which can provide optimal presentations of HTML
documents in each of these media. This work also provides the opportunity
to encourage the adoption of good design principles by HTML content
providers and authoring software developers.



