docno="lists-104-9384733"
received="Mon Jul 15 03:11:28 2002"
isoreceived="20020715071128"
sent="Mon, 15 Jul 2002 00:11:26 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20020715071126"
name="Dylan Schiemann"
email="dylans@yahoo.com"
subject="event listeners and ids with Range cloning methods"
id="20020715071126.26180.qmail@web13503.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:www-dom@w3.org


A couple of questions about the Range for which I'd
appreciate confirmation or clarification:

- should cloneContents clone eventListeners?  Based on
behavior for cloneNode and the Events spec., I would
guess no.  If it did, this raises issues for
partially-selected nodes.

- should extractNodes maintain eventListeners? If this
method is considered cloning, then I would guess no. 
If so, then I see issues with extracting
partially-selected nodes.

- should cloneNodes and extractNodes clone attributes
that are of type id, or other attribute types that
expect uniqueness?  I'm guessing that it is allowed
since I don't see any exceptions for validity.  If I
am correct, what is the user of an implementation
recommened to do to use the Range without creating
invalid markup?  For an html document, I could see
removing id attributes from nodes in the cloned
fragment before adding it to the document 

Thanks,
Dylan Schiemann

--
http://www.sitepen.com/
http://www.dylanschiemann.com/

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Autos - Get free new car price quotes
http://autos.yahoo.com



