docno="lists-060-2030024"
received="Tue Aug 27 11:33:54 2002"
isoreceived="20020827153354"
sent="Tue, 27 Aug 2002 11:33:41 -0400"
isosent="20020827153341"
name="Jan Richards"
email="jan.richards@utoronto.ca"
subject="Proposed ATAG 1.0 Tech status section"
id="3D6B9BD5.3784569C@utoronto.ca"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To: WAI-AUWG<w3c-wai-au@w3.org>


Hi all,

As an action item on yesterday's call, I undertook to add a reference to
Wombat into the ATAG 1.0 techniques document (Note: [] denote links).

Status of this document

This section describes the status of this document at the time of its
publication. Other documents may supersede this document. The latest
status of this document series is maintained at the W3C.

This document is a W3C Note, updating a previous version. This document
is published as an informative appendix to ["Authoring Tool
Accessibility Guidelines version 1.0" (ATAG 1.0)], but does not
necessarily represent a consensus within the [WAI Authoring Tools
Guidelines Working Group (AUWG)], nor within W3C.

While the AUWG does expect this to be the final version of the
"Implementation Techniques for Authoring Tool Accessibility" developed
for ATAG 1.0, the material in this document should still be considered a
"work in progress". Development of this material is ongoing, in concert
with the development of [ATAG Wombat], a guideline draft that the AUWG
expects to become ATAG version 2.0.

The AUWG expects to update the material in this document in response to
queries raised by implementors of ATAG. For example, to cover new
technologies. Suggestions for additional techniques are welcome.

This document has been produced by the [Authoring Tool Accessibility
Guidelines Working Group (AUWG)] as part of the [Web Accessibility
Initiative (WAI)]. The goals of the Working Group are presented in the
[AUWG charter]. The [WAI Interest Group] was invited to review the
material that led to this version of the document.

For further information about Working Group decisions, please consult
the [minutes of AUWG Meetings].

Please send general comments about this document to the public mailing
list: [w3c-wai-au@w3.org] ([public archives]).

A list of current W3C Recommendations and other technical documents
including Working Drafts and Notes can be found at
[http://www.w3.org/TR].



