docno="lists-026-8365952"
received="Wed Oct  1 15:44:34 2003"
isoreceived="20031001194434"
sent="Wed, 1 Oct 2003 12:42:08 -0700"
isosent="20031001194208"
name="Martin Chapman"
email="martin.chapman@oracle.com"
subject="RE: Specification meeting"
id="00cf01c38854$1a071cd0$39ae2382@us.oracle.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="99F57F955F3EEF4DABA7C88CFA7EB45A0C0C899E&#64;c1plenaexm04-b.commerceone.com"
expires="-1"

To:"'Burdett, David'"<david.burdett@commerceone.com>,"'Monica Martin'"<monica.martin@sun.com>
Cc:"'WS Choreography (E-mail)'"<public-ws-chor@w3.org>,"'Yaron Y. Goland (E-mail)'"<ygoland@bea.com>,"'Nickolas Kavantzas (E-mail)'"<nickolas.kavantzas@oracle.com>


Let me please clarify. This private meeting cannot produce THE spec. Just
like contributions from any company or group of companies, any work in 
private would have to be contributed back to the w3c if it is to be put on
the table for discussion.
 
Martin.

-----Original Message-----
From: public-ws-chor-request@w3.org [mailto:public-ws-chor-request@w3.org]
On Behalf Of Burdett, David
Sent: Wednesday, October 01, 2003 10:26 AM
To: 'Monica Martin'; Burdett, David
Cc: WS Choreography (E-mail); Yaron Y. Goland (E-mail); Nickolas Kavantzas
(E-mail)
Subject: RE: Specification meeting



Monica asked ... "Is this meeting open to interested members of the working
group?" 

Not really. I sent the message primarily as a courtesy so that the group
knows what is going on. We thought it would be better to tell everyone
rather than the three of us meeting privately, producing a spec and only
then telling the group about it! This way we can update the group on our
progress in the weekly conference calls.

So really this meeting is being held outside of the W3C rules where we want
to make **very** rapid progress in developing the ideas for the "language"
spec so that, as far as at least the three of us are concerned, we can come
to a consensus.

Note, however, that any spec that we come up with is only a draft and will
be subject to usual close scrutiny of the WG. It's just that writing, at
least the initial draft, of a spec by committee just doesn't work.

Regards 

David 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Monica Martin [mailto:monica.martin@sun.com] 
Sent: Wednesday, October 01, 2003 9:00 AM 
To: Burdett, David 
Cc: WS Choreography (E-mail); Yaron Y. Goland (E-mail); Nickolas 
Kavantzas (E-mail) 
Subject: Re: Specification meeting 



Burdett, David wrote: 

> Just to let you know that Nick Kavantzas, Yaron and I are planning to 
> meet on October 15-16th in the Bay Area at BEA's - details to follow. 
>  
> In outline the objective of the meeting is to take the specifications 
> developed by Oracle and Commerce One and start the process of working 
> out how best to use them together with the WS Chor "Requirements" spec 
> and other known issues to create a draft WS Chor "Language" spec the 
> whole group can consider. 
>  

mm1: Is this meeting open to interested members of the working group? 

> David 
> 
> Director, Standards Strategy 
> Commerce One 
> 4440 Rosewood Drive, Pleasanton, CA 94588, USA 
> Tel/VMail: +1 (925) 520 4422; Cell: +1 (925) 216 7704 
> <mailto:david.burdett@commerceone.com>; Web: 
> <http://www.commerceone.com <http://www.commerceone.com/>> 
> 
>  



