docno="lists-004-7093904"
received="Fri Sep 26 23:09:59 2003"
isoreceived="20030927030959"
sent="Thu, 25 Sep 2003 06:37:11 +0100"
isosent="20030925053711"
name="collumbus"
email="collumbus@post.cz"
subject="feasibility study"
id="20030927030747.84B961401B@w3c2.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To: undisclosed-recipients: ;

Permit me to inform of my intention to go into business
relationship with you. I am Mr Collumbus Mba, Immediately after
my University graduation, a lawyer resident in another country
came and handed me a sealed envelop saying that he has been
waiting for my graduation before approaching me as requested by
my late father, naturally I did not hide my amazement to him, his
explanation is that I should see the content of the letter to
satisfy my curiosity.

In the said envelop, an ex-minister of my country who is now late
claim to be my biological father and demanded for my forgiveness
for his sins against me, that even though he never acknowledge me
as his legitimate son because of fear of what such scandal will
do to his political carrier but then he always recognize me deep
in his heart as his son, that will explain why he bequeathed a
very huge amount in foreign currency for me under a secret and
private with a bank in Bahamas perhaps that way he will atone for
his sins against me and my mother.

Of most important, the major condition of receiving this
inheritance is my ability to convince the bank directors that I
am mature enough to clear and invest the money wisely otherwise
the bank has the right to withheld the money for another ten
years, this is where I need your help. Note that addition
information and what will be your numeration will be furnish to
you as soon you respond on my private e-mail address
collmba@post.cz 

Mr Collumbus Mba.







application/octet-stream attachment: otunwa.txt




