docno="lists-005-2414375"
received="Thu Mar 25 01:52:24 2004"
isoreceived="20040325065224"
sent="Thu, 25 Mar 2004 04:20:02 +0000 (GMT)"
isosent="20040325042002"
name="akulunor ben"
email="akulunor_ben@yahoo.co.uk"
subject="CONFIDENTIAL"
id="20040325042002.99705.qmail@web25208.mail.ukl.yahoo.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:akulunor_ben@yahoo.co.uk


General Akulunor Ben,


I am General Akulunor Ben (RETIRED); Address, Plot 35
Anifowoshe street, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria.

I am contacting you courtesy of an internet address
listing; THIS IS NOT A SPAM MAIL, and I appeal to you
to
exercise a little patience and read through my letter,
and
I guarantee you will not have wasted your time. As you
are
probably aware, Liberia, a West African Territory was
embroiled in a protracted civil war for many years.
This
war of attrition eventually attracted World attention
because of the suffering of both the many warring
parties
which constantly changed alliances and allegiances,
and the
innocent civilian refugees. There were allegations of
much
atrocities committed and human rights abuses.

Nigeria, under the leadership of General Ibrahim
Badamosi
Babangida (retired Head of State of Nigeria), appealed
to
the United Nations for help. The later encouraged
Nigeria
to mediate between 
the many protagonists. Nigeria subsequently put
together
the coalition of 13 member Economic Community of West
African States, and the regional PEACE KEEPING FORCE
KNOWN
AS ECOMOG was born! I was privileged to be the first
inaugural commander of the Peace keeping force, and I
immediately moved into the camp site at the outskirts
of
Monrovia, the capital city of Liberia to take my
command.

The peace keeping exercise was a total success , and
eventually the rebel Samuel Doe was captured and the
many
lesser war lords contained. Eventually Mr. Charles
Taylor,
whose faction was recognized by ECOWAS was helped to
establish an acceptable Government; peace was
restored; and
the rest is history.

During the final onslaught which resulted in the
capture of
Samuel Doe, the campaign was meticulously planned and
executed flawlessly; Samuel Doe?s Headquarters was
seized
by my men, and much ammunition as usual were
recovered;
However, 2 large t runk boxes were also 
recovered and I immediately ordered them taken to my
quarters because there were rampant cases of pilfering
and
outright looting by the Soldiers (the Soldiers came
from
different Countries and sometimes discipline was
hard).

When I examined the Trunk boxes, I got a shock! They
were
stacked full of 100 Dollar bills! To my inexperienced
eye,
I estimated that the boxes must contain at least 20
Million
Dollars! I was faced with an instant dilemma?I dared
not
declare this discovery to the Military High command;
the
money would promptly disappear into private pockets of
the
Military high brass. I immediately swore my ADC to
secrecy and decided to transport the boxes into
Nigeria. I
used my powers to requisition a Hercules Transport
AirPlane
under my Command and airlifted the boxes to Nigeria.
Needless to say, Our Aircrafts and military
equipment/property do not undergo Customs checks.

Acco rdingly I immediately took the trunk boxes and
deposited them in a safe deposit box belonging to Mega
Security Company Ltd. Of course No one knows the
content
of these boxes and I simply listed ?VALUABLES? in the
deposit form and I paid the token charge of 2,500.00
USD
per annum. The date was 15th January, 1991.

I deliberately waited for the right political climate
to
move this money abroad for investment purposes. The
time is
now right because a properly elected Civilian
Government is
now in charge of Nigeria. 

I need your help because I am a highly visible
personality,
and any attempt by me to transfer this money to a
foreign
Country will fail. Also the law in Nigeria does not
allow
serving or retired Military Personnel to own/operate
foreign Bank Accounts in their name?I have therefore
arranged out a perfect and 100% risk free method of
transferring this money abroad, with your help. 

If you are interested in helping me, please reply
immediately, giving me your phone and fax numbers and
I
will give you further details ; we will then establish
a
game plan to achieve our aim. Please bear in mind that
as
far as you are concerned, this transaction IS NOT
ILLEGAL
and and that for your assistance, 30% of the fund will
be
yours. This is the word of a military officer. 

Thank you,

Gen. . Akulunor Ben Rtd.





____________________________________________________________
Too much spam in your inbox? Yahoo! Mail gives you the best
spam protection for FREE! http://uk.mail.yahoo.com



