docno="lists-046-15912205"
received="Mon Feb 23 00:00:02 2004"
isoreceived="20040223050002"
sent="Sun, 22 Feb 2004 21:00:06 -0800"
isosent="20040223050006"
name="Janet Daly"
email="janet@w3.org"
subject="News Release: World Wide Web Consortium Presents Mobile Web at 3GSM  2004"
id="403988D6.50006@w3.org"
charset="UTF-8"
expires="-1"


To: w3c-news<w3c-news@w3.org>


W3C will be demonstrating its work in developing technical standards for
the Mobile Web at 3GSM 2004 in Cannes, France. For more information,
please contact the W3C Communications Team representative in your
region, or call Janet Daly, W3C Head of Communications <janet@w3.org> at
+1 617 253 5884.

------------------------------------------------------------------

World Wide Web Consortium Presents Mobile Web at 3GSM 2004

Focus on Multimodal, Device Independence and Multimedia Messaging standards

Web Resources

This press release
   In English: http://www.w3.org/2004/02/3gsm-pressrelease.html.en
   In French: http://www.w3.org/2004/02/3gsm-pressrelease.html.fr
   In Japanese: http://www.w3.org/2004/02/3gsm-pressrelease.html.ja

W3C's 3GSM 2004 Calendar
http://www.w3.org//2004/02/3GSM-2004.html

http://www.w3.org/ -- 23 February 2004 -- The World Wide Web Consortium
(W3C) is present at the 3GSM 2004 Congress, from 23 to 26 February 2004,
in Cannes, France. Over 25,000 visitors will have the opportunity to
learn about W3C's efforts in Multimodal Interaction, Voice Browsing,
Device Independence, and Multimedia Messaging.

W3C Develops Interoperability Standards for the Mobile Web

W3C is currently addressing many challenges of the Mobile Web, including
two with significant present and future impact: multimodal access and
single authoring. W3C's Multimodal Interaction Activity works on
standards that bring interoperability to writing multimodal Web
services. W3C's Device Independence Activity is working on standards
that will significantly lower the cost of authoring Web content to be
adapted to specific mobile devices or user preferences. These efforts
enable a new class of exciting mobile applications that combine today's
Web technologies with tomorrow's mobile technologies including voice
recognition (via Speech Interface Framework, including Speech
Recognition Grammar Specification, Speech Synthesis Markup Language, and
VoiceXML 2.0), handwriting recognition and gestures (via InkML).

In addition, much of the work done in W3C Working Groups allows for
profiling and adaptations of specifications to suit the needs of diverse
devices. Today, SMIL (SMIL Basic) is at the heart of 3GPP???s Multimedia
Messaging Service (MMS), and the mobile versions of SVG (Tiny) and XHTML
(XHTML Basic and Modularization) are in widespread use in mobile
applications. All of these specifications allow for rich content
experiences, and leverage the power and extensibility of the XML standard.

Presentations and Demonstrations to Cover Broad Range of Mobile Applications

Representatives from the W3C Technical Team are attending the 3GSM 2004
Congress to answer questions about Multimodal Interaction, VoiceXML and
the Speech Interface Framework, authoring content for multiple devices,
and also to give demonstrations of W3C Standards in action. The
presenters include:

     * Mr. Stephane Boyera, Device Independence Activity Lead
     * Dr. Max Froumentin, W3C Team Contact for the Multimodal
         Interaction and Voice Browser Activities
     * Dr. Philipp Hoschka, W3C Deputy Director for Europe

Dr. Hoschka is also scheduled to give presentations on the development
of W3C Mobile Web standards. The program and other useful information
are available on the Web at http://www.w3.org//2004/02/3GSM-2004.html.

Where to Find W3C at 3GSM 2004

The W3C Booth is part of the Telecom Valley Gallery, located at ??la
Potini??re du Palais??, across the street from the main entrance to the
Palais des Festivals. For more information, including details on the
presentation schedule, please contact Marie-Claire Forgue, <marie@w3.org>

Contact America --
     Janet Daly, <janet@w3.org>, +1.617.253.5884 or +1.617.253.2613
Contact Europe --
     Marie-Claire Forgue, <mcf@w3.org>, +33.492.38.75.94
Contact Asia --
     Yasuyuki Hirakawa <chibao@w3.org>, +81.466.49.1170

About the World Wide Web Consortium [W3C]

The W3C was created to lead the Web to its full potential by developing
common protocols that promote its evolution and ensure its
interoperability. It is an international industry consortium jointly run
by the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (MIT
CSAIL) in the USA, the European Research Consortium for Informatics and
Mathematics (ERCIM) headquartered in France and Keio University in
Japan. Services provided by the Consortium include: a repository of
information about the World Wide Web for developers and users, and
various prototype and sample applications to demonstrate use of new
technology. To date, nearly 400 organizations are Members of the
Consortium. For more information see http://www.w3.org/

###



