docno="lists-023-0336997"
received="Thu May 22 09:26:48 2003"
isoreceived="20030522132648"
sent="Thu, 22 May 2003 09:26:46 -0400"
isosent="20030522132646"
name="Glenn A. Adams"
email="glenn@xfsi.com"
subject="Minutes - 04/24/03 Telecon"
id="7249D02C4D2DFD4D80F2E040E8CAF37C03BA42@longxuyen.xfsi.com"
charset="utf-8"
expires="-1"


To:"W3C TT Public"<public-tt@w3.org>



Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 04/24/03

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF1]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]
  Markus Gylling (Daisy) [MG]
  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]
  Sean Hayes (Microsoft) [SH]
  Mike Dolan (Invited Expert) [MD]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]

Absent

  Gerry Field (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF2]
  George Kerscher (Daisy) [GK]
  Markku Hakkinen (JSRPD) [MH]
  Brad Botkin (WGBH/NCAM) [BB]
  Patrick Schmitz (Ludicrum, Invited Expert) [PS]

************************************************************************
Agenda
************************************************************************

1. TT-AF-1-0-REQ Review
2. Open Action Items
3. Open Issues

************************************************************************
1. TT-AF-1-0-REQ Review
************************************************************************

[GA] indicates a new revision was posted last night, containing additions
to R111, new R112, and new normative references.

[GA] describes possible new requirements received from [SH]. One is
to add aural styling properties. Would be useful when timed text is
primary media, and is to be presented aurally.

[DS] describes three possible scenarios. [GA] requests [DS] send
email with description.

[GA] asks about interaction of semantic markup described under R219
that is speech oriented; will this interact with aural style properties?

[SH] may want to take looking SSML and possibly additional pragmatic
markers.

Action: [GA] to contact someone from TEI and Speech Markup Group to
review requirements for speech markup and aural properties.

[GA] asks for clarification on proposal for pause functionality.

[SH] describes scenario where a video description may require longer
time to present than video clip it describes, in which case video
would need to be paused.

[EH] may handle through SMIL, e.g., use of parallel or exclusive.

[GA] asks about requirements re movement vs shape animation. Are
we talking just about movement animation or both movement and shape
change, e.g., moving points in a path?

[SH] both.

[GA] try to capture ability to do 3d movement animation in aural space;
don't try for 3D visual right now.

************************************************************************
2. Action Items Review
************************************************************************

A-4: [DS] to propose scroll (motion) animation markup.

Done.

A-5: [MH] to propose hilite animation markup.

[GA] propose to handle as property animation using background color for
inline objects.

[MG] From accessibility perspective, background color is insufficient.
Need notion of focus rectangle.

Mark as done for time being.

A-6: [GA] to create public accessible biblio page based on reference
list from [DS] and reference from member and public home pages.

Will incorporate into other references section of REQ document.

Mark as done.

A-7: [MG] To provide input on R111 by 04/24.

Done.

A-8: [GA] To contact [EH] to prompt some results on Animation. [DS]
to help. Also ask Sean Hayes to assist. Need input by 04/24. [GA]
will craft something if nothing received.

Done.

A-9: [TM] Will send [GA] proposal for URI to use in www.w3.org/TR/.

Done. Use the following URIs:

http://www.w3.org/tt-af-1-0-req/
http://www.w3.org/NOTE-tt-af-1-0-req-20030501/

A-10: [GA] Will work with [TM] to come up with proposal for a namespace
URI.

Postpone any decision until begin drafting TT AF specification.

A-11: [*] To review REQ doc by 04/24 and comment.

Done.

A-12: [TM] to update meeting pages to reflect F2F date change.

Done.

A-13: [GA] to contact BBC to communicate F2F date change.

Done.

************************************************************************
2. Open Issue Review
************************************************************************

I-2: How to handle highlighting?

Tentative Resolution: style animation, e.g., using <set> or <animate>.

[MG] Indicates it will need to be expanded to handle accessibility.

[DS] Notes there is a semantic implication as well.

I-3: Expand list of targetable transform formats (R109).

Also mention SAMI, 3GPP, and Flash.

Action: [GA] Add note under R110 indicating targeting MPEG-4 Timed
Text Streaming Format.

I-4: Need formulation of content/authoring accessibility (R111).

Done. Received proposal from [MG].

I-5: Need to discuss embedded graphics (R214).

Tentative Resolution: to accept inline graphics, but need to
better define how embedded graphics works, e.g., using "data:"
URI scheme (how to determine content type, etc.).

I-6: Do we want to support external graphics?

Tentative Resolution: to accept inline graphics, with reference to
external resources.

[SH] Raises issue of whether to supported embedded audio.

[GA] Add new open issue I-14 to address.

************************************************************************
ADJOURNS at 1305h Eastern Time (US)
************************************************************************

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

Tentative Resolution: for hilite animation, use style animation, e.g.,
using <set> or <animate>.

Tentative Resolution: to accept inline graphics, but need to
better define how embedded graphics works, e.g., using "data:"
URI scheme (how to determine content type, etc.).

Tentative Resolution: to accept inline graphics, with reference to
external resources.

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [GA] to contact someone from TEI and Speech Markup Group to
review requirements for speech markup and aural properties.

Action: [GA] Add note under R110 indicating targeting MPEG-4 Timed
Text Streaming Format.

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

I-7: Need to discuss embedded fonts (R215).

I-8: Do we want to support external font resources?

I-9: Need refinement of semantic vocabulary for R216.

I-10: Need to agree on use of XLink for referencing (R292, R293).

I-11: Need to discuss additional style parameters (R305): baseline
related, border, margin, padding, etc.

I-12: Need to define interaction of time containers with content
containment structure.

I-13: [DS] Under R211, do we want to support an intermediate mode where
bidi and glyph sub still occur post authoring?

I-14: Whether to support embeded or external references to audio clips
to handle aural presentation?

I-15: Whether to indicate use of "data:" URI scheme for embedding
graphics?

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



