docno="lists-002-7289156"
received="Tue Apr  8 01:07:52 2003"
isoreceived="20030408050752"
sent="Tue, 08 Apr 2003 05:07:44 +0000"
isosent="20030408050744"
name="Surf In"
email="surf_in1@hotmail.com"
subject="Dating Sites For Single Women and Men Who Want Personal Ads Dating"
id="F26h4nElKdRsUdigM4o0000fb13@hotmail.com"
expires="-1"

To:html-tidy@w3.org



Sites featuring personal ads for single women and men. New singles resources 
added weekly: personal ads, dating sites, articles and events. Directory of 
dating sites. Lovesitescom - dating services and personals sites for singles 
dating and personals sites with links to online singles, internet 
matchmaking services focused on love, romance, relationships and personal 
ads. Searchable directory of dating, personals and matchmaking sites for 
singles looking for romance online.



http://www.geocities.com/shoppinginformer4/articledate.htm



dating, dating service, dating online, adult dating, dating free, dating 
free service, dating interracial, dating tip, dating free online, dating 
site, advice dating, dating single, dating sex, dating personal, dating 
speed, dating teen, dating game, dating internet , dating russian, dating 
free site, dating indian, agency dating, dating online services, asian 
dating, dating woman, dating line, dating gay, 8 dating daughter rule simple 
teenage, dating site web, dating jewish, dating free online services, dating 
rule, dating lesbian, dating sims, dating idea, dating extreme, adult dating 
services, dating uk, black dating, dating herpes, dating international, 
dating married, dating online service, dating russian woman, dating latin, 
dating dutch, yahoo dating, dating direct, carbon dating, dating free 
personal, bbw dating, dating hiv, single older woman dating, dating sim, 
online dating game, dating story, dating married woman, advice dating teen, 
8 dating minute, dating quiz, adult dating service, dating question, black 
dating man white woman, dating free online service, adult dating free, 
dating dating single single, dating man married, dating relationship, dating 
nz, dating transexual, dating older woman, dating single russian woman, 
dating dating free single, dating single personal ads, dating etiquette, 
dating swinger, msn dating, alternative dating, dating video, agency dating 
uk, dating senior, adult dating site, dating service teen, connection 
dating, dating extreme, dating teenage, armenian dating, astrology dating, 
canada dating, chat dating, dating dating services single, shemale dating, 
dating interracial service, chinese dating, dating latin woman, dating 
phone, date, blind date, holiday date, sims hot date, due date calculator, 
date due pregnancy, date manager, dvd release date, date up, date first, 
date and time, date movie release, date idea, date due, cheat date hot sims, 
date game mystery, date tour, blind date tv, card date save, date star, 
blind date tv show, concert date, date jordan release, 5 book date harry 
potter release, birth date, date hot, date find, pregnancy due date 
calculator, date julian, bowl date super , date sex, date today, date 
mystery, date online, date international line, due date calendar, baby due 
date, date history in this, box date release x, date release, date easter , 
2003 date easter, u date, air date jordan release, date save, cd release 
date, date line, date free, date ps2 release, date j, blind date uncensored, 
2003 date holiday, 2003 calendar date, date downloads hot sims, conception 
date, calendar date, date release video, calendar date due pregnancy, 2 date 
play release station, 2 date halo release, first date idea, cheat code date 
hot sims, date hanukkah, date game release video, calculate date due, date 
download hot sims, 2003 bowl date super, blind date show, date dream, date 
romantic, cracker date, date history in, date monthly movie release, concert 
tour date, box date game release x, date man, date palm, date solstice 
winter, bread date nut, java script date, book date, mardi gras date, date 
magnet save, date with death, date square, date hot number serial sims , 
date calculator, date jewish, date idea romantic, date guy, date recipe, 
blind date video, date fun idea, date game pc release, date game release, 
album release date, chinese new year and date, date rate, creative date, cd 
date hot key sims



http://www.geocities.com/shoppinginformer4/articledate.htm

_________________________________________________________________
Download the latest MSN Messenger http://messenger.msn.com.my



