docno="lists-076-15713715"
received="Mon Jun 11 21:22:25 2001"
isoreceived="20010612012225"
sent="Mon, 11 Jun 2001 18:22:15 -0700 (PST)"
isosent="20010612012215"
name="robert.neff"
email="robert.neff@uaccessit.com"
subject="Enable America"
id="200106120122.VAA22508@swiftsure.cnchost.com"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org

To All:

We are proud to launch Enable America!, see 
http://www.enableamerica.org.  This is a political 
action committee dedicated to reducing unemployment 
among Americans with disabilities.

This is a "soft launch" and provides the public a 
chance to review the site and for us to find and 
resolve issues with the content and both technical 
and accessibility issues.

The site was designed with accessiblity in mind.  we 
still have some work to do on the forms and style 
sheets.  We also must complete the quality assurance 
assessment.  

But this gives you a chance to try to break it and to 
provide feedback on how it works with your browsers 
or assistive device.

We invite you to take a tour and provide your 
feedback to us. If you have feedback or technical 
issues, please go to the web site and select  
Feedback, Submit a Comment and check my name, Robert 
Neff and here is this web address, 
https://www.enableamerica.org/contribute/feedback/comm
ent.asp or if you do not want to use SSL, send an 
email to customerservice@enableamerica.org.

I greatly appreciate the list for their feedback and 
comments on issues, especially, Chas, Gregory, Katie 
and Jim Thatcher.  Eventhough I have not had time to 
incoporate all their suggestions, the dialog and 
feedback for the IG has been great!  This is a 
volunteer effort and it has been a pleasure!

Regards, Robert Neff



