docno="lists-073-15287333"
received="Sat Oct 10 23:53:27 1998"
isoreceived="19981011035327"
sent="Sat, 10 Oct 1998 16:38:37 -0400"
isosent="19981010203837"
name="Judy Brewer"
email="jbrewer@w3.org"
subject="WAI INTEREST GROUP UPDATE, October 10, 1998"
id="3.0.5.32.19981010163837.009db100@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org

WAI INTEREST GROUP UPDATE, October 10, 1998

1. Authoring Tool Guidelines working draft coming up soon
2. Protocols & Formats Review WG looks at WAI requirements for DOM and XML
3. WAI Interest Group home page updated, draft Charter available for review
4. W3C to hold Workshop on Web Characterization

1. Authoring Tool Guidelines Working Draft coming up soon:

The Authoring Tool Guidelines Working Group (AUWG) has temporarily split
into two sub-groups, one for document development, the other to evaluate
accessibility of current authoring tools. The group expects to bring a
working draft to the WAI IG within the next several weeks, for review prior to
publishing a first Working Draft on the W3C/TR page. If you want a preview,
follow the "current draft" link at <http://www.w3.org/WAI/AU>; then join
the latest discussion on the AUWG mailing list archive. Jutta Treviranus
<jutta.treviranus@utoronto.ca>, the AUWG Chair, is particularly looking for
more authoring tool manufacturers to join the group; contact her if you are
interested.

2. Protocols & Formats WG looks at WAI requirements for DOM and XML:

WAI PFWG is discussing accessibility requirements for DOM Level 2 with the
W3C DOM WG, including DOM implementation of events and style information.
The W3C XML WG is starting a new work phase, and collecting requirements,
which WAI will be commenting on. Stay tuned for more information on both of
these areas. If you are interested in being involved in these or future
discussions about WAI technical dependencies with other areas of W3C work,
contact Al Gilman, the WAI PF Chair, at <asgilman@access.digex.net>.

3. WAI Interest Group (IG) home page updated; draft Charter available for
review:

The WAI Interest Group home page <http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG> has been
updated to provide more detailed information on WAI activities for IG
members. Resources include quick links to WAI groups, back issues of the IG
UPDATE, tips on W3C mailing list use, etc. A draft WAI IG Charter is linked
from the page and available for review; comments go to <jbrewer@w3.org>.
It's still best though to link public pointers about WAI to the WAI home
page at <http://www.w3.org/WAI>.

4. W3C to hold Workshop on Web Characterization

W3C will hold a workshop on Web Characterization on November 5, 1998 in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA, to examine patterns of usage on the Web.
This information should be useful in tracking changes in accessibility over
time. If you have W3C Member access, registration information is at
<http://www.w3.org/Member/1998/09/WC-workshop>. If you do not have W3C
Member access but are interested, e-mail hjelm@w3.org, with a cc to
jbrewer@w3.org. Registration closes October 22. 

_________________________________________________________________________
Judy Brewer    jbrewer@w3.org    +1.617.258.9741    http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)

To unsubscribe from the WAI Interest Group list, e-mail
w3c-wai-ig-request@w3.org with "unsubscribe" as subject.  For questions
related to w3c-wai-ig@w3.org, e-mail jbrewer@w3.org.



