docno="lists-081-0655122"
received="Mon Mar 22 19:16:44 2004"
isoreceived="20040323001644"
sent="Tue, 23 Mar 2004 00:15:01 -0000"
isosent="20040323001501"
name="Paul Davis"
email="paul@ten-20.com"
subject="Re: User Responsibility for Web Accessibility"
id="001d01c4106c$07009e90$1bbbfea9@JAMESU"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="E02E58E0-7C45-11D8-8D42-000A958826AA&#64;sidar.org"
expires="-1"


To:"Charles McCathieNevile"<charles@sidar.org>,"James Craig"<wai-ig@cookiecrook.com>
Cc:<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>


Sorry for my recent absence in this thread been out all day. Got myself a
holiday home.

"Any ideas how to get users to understand their responsibilities and take
them on"

Excellent point Charles, we can discuss until we are blue in the face, the
fact remains we will still fail to reach those who have no desire to go
beyond those 'email thingy things' I was recently taken aback when my own
sister got up from her computer and pulled the plug from the wall to shut
down. Her explanation was it was far quicker and avoided the well documented
risk of spontaneous computer combustion. Subsequent questioning also
revealed she thought scandisk was normal booting up procedure. I made a
mental note of loading Win 3.1 as it was more forgiving of this shut down
procedure. It may also reduce the number of my visits to sort out the
"quote" dammed thing that keeps going wrong all on it's own.

We do have "Learn Direct" here in the UK. A scheme that promotes free
computer training amongst many other subjects. I cannot see how it could be
promoted any harder. Yet the take up is woefully small amongst the targeted
population in many areas. However the "silver surfers" are flocking to it,
yet the funding here is restricted. The net result is courses with funding
are either dreadfully undersubscribed or cancelled due to lack of students,
whilst those who do not qualify are turned away. Whilst colleges are trying
to address the problem some private companies are making a killing providing
services that are never used.

One man can lead a horse to water, 100 cannot make him drink.

Personally when it comes to teaching methods I prefer the swift hammer blow
to the head. It gets attention, and reduces student numbers and irksome
questions to a minimum. The survivors learn faster too!!

smiles
Paul Davis



