docno="lists-022-16723463"
received="Fri Mar 14 16:31:49 2003"
isoreceived="20030314213149"
sent="Fri, 14 Mar 2003 16:31:54 -0500"
isosent="20030314213154"
name="Glenn A. Adams"
email="glenn@xfsi.com"
subject="Minutes - 02/20/03 Telecon"
id="7249D02C4D2DFD4D80F2E040E8CAF37C03B83D@longxuyen.xfsi.com"
charset="utf-8"
expires="-1"


To:"W3C TT Public"<public-tt@w3.org>



Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 02/20/03

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]
  Markus Gylling (Daisy) [MG]
  Mike Dolan (invited expert) [MD]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]

Regrets

  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF1]
  George Kerscher (Daisy) [GK]
  Gerry Field (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF2]
  Markku Hakkinen (JSRPD) [MH]

Absent

  Patrick Schmitz (Ludicrum, Invited Expert) [PS]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]

************************************************************************
Agenda
************************************************************************

1. Action Item Review
2. Summarize Public TT Discussion on Timing
3. F2F Agenda Planning

************************************************************************
1. Action Items Review
************************************************************************

Action: [GA] Post to publicTT the resolution approved above. Before the
next conference call.

Not yet done.

Action: [MD] To create a description of posted image (PDF) document.

Not yet done.

ACTION: [*] Contact potential participants or send contact info to [GA].

[GA] Need to contact BBC. Looks like MSFT will participate and have
asked them to review SAMI material.

Continue Action.

ACTION: [GA] To send comparative analysis material to member reflector.

Done. [EH] will reveiw the RT column.

Action: [*] Submit proposals.

[MG] Hope to have semantic part early next week. [GA] will also have
the text part and animation by next week's call. [GA] To send reminder
to Geoff Freed. [EH] Hopefully next week. [MD] Still working on
metadata.

[GA] Asks Thierry to arrange for conference phone at F2F for call-ins.

************************************************************************
2. Timed Text Time Model vs SMIL
************************************************************************

[GA] Tries to summarize some of the discussion on reflector regarding
embedding timing into text stream versus external timing. There appears
to be some confusion re: TT vs SMIL on public reflector. Need to come
to some resolution and refocus discussion.

[GA] Believes that inline simple timing in TT is appropriate; appear
to need begin, duration, end attributes only. Up to author as to use
of duration vs end. Probably need implied duration/end as well by use
of begin of next sample. Both begin and end need to be expressable as:

* smpte time code (or other media marker)
* npt
* wall clock?
* others?

[GA] Other time markup probably not needed; e.g., probably don't need
time containers within TT (use flattened timing instead, with implied
seq as required).

[EH] Feels that simple inline timing in TT is sufficient. External
timesheets, time composition, more complex, and probably out of scope.

[GA] Will summarize his thinking to public reflector to try to obtain
closure.

************************************************************************
3. Agenda planning for F2F
************************************************************************

[GA] Have scheduled half hour slot with MMI; in process of scheduling
short slot with SVG. Waiting to hear back from SVG.

[EH] May want to pose questions to MMI/SVG that arise from our proposals
on requirements categories.

[GA] Believes primary goal of F2F will be to produce first rough draft
of TT REQ document. Group can either serialize discussion or break into
drafting groups around functional categories; probably will serialize
since group is too small and all of shared interest.

[GA] Describes what he wants from TT REQ document; see MMI REQ doc as
example. Probably will need review by other groups.

Action: [GA]/[TM] Check on process reqs for publishing TT REQ document.

[GA] Suggests that if there are other areas to discuss, e.g., new reqs
that might come from Talking Books and other domains, then would like to
see proposed discussion topics.

[MG] Believes this will probably be addressed under semantics category
proposal.

Action: [GA] Send reminder to member reflector requesting agenda items.

************************************************************************
ADJOURNS at 1245h Eastern Time (US)
************************************************************************

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

None.

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [GA] Post to publicTT the resolution approved above. Before the
next conference call.

Action: [MD] To create a description of posted image (PDF) document.

Action: [*] Contact potential participants or send contact info to [GA].

Action: [*] Submit proposals on categories: [GA] text, animation; [EH]
timing; [MG]/[MH] semantics; [GF2] style; [MD] metadata.

Action: [TM] Arrange phone for F2F for specific call-ins.

Action: [GA]/[TM] Check on process reqs for publishing TT REQ document.

Action: [GA] Send reminder to member reflector requesting F2F agenda
items.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



