docno="lists-016-0377149"
received="Thu Jan 23 14:35:31 2003"
isoreceived="20030123193531"
sent="Thu, 23 Jan 2003 19:35:15 0000"
isosent="20030123193515"
name="Richard Ishida"
email="ishida@w3.org"
subject="MINUTES: I18n GEO teleconference 030122"
id="003a01c2c316$8ec383f0$d901000a@w3c40upc3ma3j2"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To:<public-i18n-geo@w3.org>



MINUTES 

W3C I18n GEO Phone Conference
22 Jan 2003

Present: Andrew, Lloyd, Richard (chair, scribe), Russ, Steve, Tex
Regrets: Steve


New Actions
============

ACTION: All, look at the table of contents of
http://www.w3.org/International/geo/html-tech/ and send proposals to the
list for topics they would like to work on.

ACTION: Richard, draw up some ideas on how to develop content, and
document the structure of the documents for editors

ACTION: Russ, investigate possible tools and approaches for managing
distributed content development


Prior Action Items
==============
Action: Richard, change title.
DONE.

Action: Richard, change date to 2003.
DONE.

Action: Richard, look at ways of making the document print with a
smaller font, while avoiding any WAI issues.
[pending]

Action: Russ, write up some notes on suggestions for auto-resizing and
bidi mirroring and send to list. 
DONE.


Action: Martin, provide ideas for dealing with character sets &
encodings in forms. 
[pending]

All: register for Tech Plenary (see below)
[in progress]

All: Look at Richard's TOC and send in comments.
Done.

All: read through HTML 4.0 spec and send notes to the list about
possible guidelines. 
[pending]

Richard: Merge discussion doc and decisions into a framework doc (reqts
doc) & also review and respond to WAI requirements doc 
[pending]

All: send in pointers to existing guidelines 
[pending]

Suzanne: put together a list of short term vs. long term goals related
to education and outreach - send it to us for discussion 
[pending]

Russ: contact the following people/orgs in search of additional
participants: john jenkins (Apple), andrea vine (Sun), nuray aykin
(Siemens), trados, boeing 
[andrea contacted - she will be back at Sun in March and will let us
know her availability
Nuray - checking with her mgr & ac rep
No response from others
Intel - michael cooperstein plus one other (encoding)]

Tex: contact the following people/orgs in search of additional
participants: mark davis, lisa moore (IBM), hideki hiura (Sun) 
[mail sent, no replies yet]


Richard: craig cummings (Oracle), yves savourel (RWS), christian lieske
(SAP), frank tang (Netscape), hakon lee (Opera) 
[Craig is too busy right now.  Mail sent to christian, frank and hakon -
no reponse yet]



Dependencies
===========
None.




Discussion
========
Richard described the changes to the document structure he had made this
week.
See
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0024.html

We had a discussion about how to all share in the editing of content.
ACTION: Richard, draw up some ideas on how to develop content, and
document the structure of the documents for editors
ACTION: Russ, investigate possible tools and approaches for managing
distributed content development

We felt it would be good to set up a glossary, and for people to
contribute suggestions for terms to go in it.

ACTION: All, look at the table of contents of
http://www.w3.org/International/geo/html-tech/ and send proposals to the
list for topics they would like to work on.


Next meeting:
==========
Same time, same bridge, next week.




EDITS PENDING
=============

Fri 17/01/2003 16:10e, clarify the relationship between 'avoid
escapes' and 'use hex techniques [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:09e, link to the WAI docs section on language
declarations [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:08e, incorporate guidance related to Character
Model & Unicode and Markup Languages [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:08e, ensure use of lower case througout for
element names eg. META
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html
Done

Fri 17/01/2003 16:07e, time & date: improve rules [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:06e, consider when it is appropriate to mention
source separation [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:04e, say that fragment identifiers shouldn't be
translated [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:03edit, spell out PUA and link to glossary
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:03edit, add normalisation info [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:01edit, add autoresizing and bidi mirroring info
[[ http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html


Fri 17/01/2003 16:01edit, mention video
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:59edit, allude to vertical text in the HTML
techniques
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:58edit, Add a section on printing issues related
to paper sizes to the toc. [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:51edit, make the text print smaller [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:49edit, change title
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html
Done

Thu 16/01/2003 16:32edit, ac 15jan, add stuff on normalisation

Thu 16/01/2003 16:30edit, ac 15jan, link to WAI lang stuff

Thu 16/01/2003 16:05edit, link to UXML

Thu 16/01/2003 14:42edit, standardise spellings

Thu 16/01/2003 14:29edit, make 2002 2003
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/
http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/



