docno="lists-049-9319950"
received="Sun Dec  8 17:50:40 2002"
isoreceived="20021208225040"
sent="Sun, 8 Dec 2002 16:50:34 -0600"
isosent="20021208225034"
name="pat hayes"
email="phayes@ai.uwf.edu"
subject="Re: Minutes RDF Core WG Telcon 2002-12-06"
id="p05111b0aba197a1fb877@[10.0.100.86]"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="28415.1039194574&#64;hoth.ilrt.bris.ac.uk"
expires="-1"


To: Dave Beckett<dave.beckett@bristol.ac.uk>
Cc:w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org


>Agenda:
>http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2002Dec/0059.html
>
>Transcript:
>http://ilrt.org/discovery/chatlogs/rdfcore/2002-12-06
>
>1: Scribe:
>    Dave Beckett
>    Next week, Graham Klyne
>
>2: Roll Call
>    Dave Beckett (scribe)
>    Dan Brickley
>    Jeremy Carroll
>    Dan Connolly
>    Jos De Roo
>    Jan Grant
>    Pat Hayes
>    Graham Klyne
>    Frank Manola
>    Brian McBride (chair)
>    Steve Petschulat
>    Patrick Stickler
>    Aaron Swartz
>    Ralph Swick (for Eric Miller)
>
>Regrets:
>    Eric Miller
>
>3: Review agenda
>    AOB: rdf:value discussion, taken under item 7
>
>4: Next telecon 13th Dec 2002
>     confirmed
>
>5: Minutes of 2002-11-2 telecon
>
>   http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2002Nov/0611.html
>   APPROVED
>
>
>6: Confirm Status of Completed Actions
>
>ACTION: 2002-02-25#21 EricM
>ACTION: 2002-04-26#5 Eric
>ACTION: 2002-05-03#1 bwm
>ACTION: 2002-11-08#5 jjc
>
>all confirmed DONE
>
>
>
>7: Primer
>
>Latest editor's version known:
>   http://www.w3.org/2001/09/rdfprimer/rdf-primer-20021124.html
>
>Discussion of primer mentioning rdf:value and other vocabulary things
>discused "over and above" what is said in the Semantics WD.
>bwm notes WG has already decided to keep rdf:value with no formal
>meaning, not to deprecate and this issue is not reopened.
>FrankM will try to get a new version out by Dec 13.
>
>ACTION 2002-12-06#1 PatH: suggest alternate text on rdf:value for
>   primer by Monday 9th
>
>ACTION 2002-12-06#2 PatH: update the rdf:value desc in the semantics doc
>
>ACTION 2002-12-06#3 PatrickS: draft one paragraph about
>   rdfs:isDefinedBy and other terms to draw out them for readers of
>   the primer
>
>
>8: Concepts Doc
>
>The latest editor's version known is:
>
>   http://sealpc09.cnuce.cnr.it/jeremy/RDF-concepts/20021121/Overview.html
>
>Editors agreed to not mention semantic extensions in the concepts
>doc; PatH also happy with this.  Editors are ready for last call and
>can meet Dec 13 deadline.
>
>ACTION 2002-12-06#4 jjc: Write explicit definition of blank nodes in concepts.
>
>ACTION 2002-12-06#5 jjc: Do concepts doc section renumbering/reordering
>    by Tuesday 10th Dec
>
>
>9: Semantics Doc
>
>Latest editor's version known is:
>   http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes/RDF_Semantics_finalCall.html
>
>PatH is pretty much done, some HTML, anchors to fix.  Can meet Dec 13
>deadline.  Discussion of datatypes schema, where to put it.
>Suggestion that the schema be moved to a separate document and worked
>at a different rate outside this WD.
>
>[scribe note: I think above might be an action to PatH or an
>editorial change].

I think that if it is an action item then it should be on some subset 
of Patrick, Jeremy and me. A new document presumably needs an editor, 
right? I could carry this if it is seen as a chore, but since the 
material is largely Jeremy/Patrick's, it would be more appropriate if 
it had their names on it.

>
>ACTION 2002-12-06#6 jang: Check the use of rdf:XMLLiteral in the
>   current RDF Semantics editor's draft and its effect on test cases.
>
>
>10: Syntax Document
>
>Editor confirms is ready.  Parsetype literal paragraph discussion
>nearly wordsmithed.  Considered taking out relaxng schema, won't do
>for last call wd.  Doc will be ready by Dec 13.
>
>
>11: Schema
>
>Doc isn't quite ready.  danbri will attempt to get a new version for
>Dec 13 review.
>
>
>12: Testcases
>
>JanG is working on the document and expects to have a new version out
>with updated test cases by Dec 11 and thus meeting Dec 13 deadline.
>Some specific test cases will need reviewing,  These will be brought
>to the group around Wed Dec 11.  Discussion of specific ones - some
>.rdf test case files have non-rdf:RDF root or multiple ones; these
>aren't rdf/xml.  Exact tests to be determined by JanG.
>
>ACTION 2002-12-06#7 JanG: Find the test cases with rdf:RDF issues (we
>   think xml:base ones).  Find out what the test cases were testing
>   and adddress replacing/deleting or updating as appropriate.
>
>ACTION 2002-12-06#8 PatH: Produce wording on effective use of
>   closure rules on datatyping (sec 4.3 ?)
>
>ACTION 2002-12-06#9 jang: Check list of testcase actions under item
>   12 agenda in
>     http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2002Dec/0059.html
>   and confirm with bwm that they are all done.
>
>
>13: LBase Document
>
>danbri reports some changes from PatH yet to be folded in.  This
>document is now refered to from RDF Semantics WD, so needs to be out
>before last call of the latter.  danbri will work on that after
>schema WD work; intending to pub lbase after Dec 13.
>
>
>14: The last deliverable
>
>Re: RDFCore deliverable:
>    * provide an account of the relationship between RDF and the
>      XML family of technologies (particularly Schemas and Infoset/Query)
>
>Discussion of approaches and suggestion from RalphS that given that
>the WG has addressed XML in other docs (syntax XML infoset etc),
>datatypes & XSD, then this could be addressed by WG-endoresed FAQs.
>
>DECISION: Will produce FAQs on the relationship between XML and RDF
>
>ACTION 2002-12-06#10  bwm: to ensure rdf and xml FAQs get written
>
>
>15: Schedule
>
>Discussion of dates and holidays mean it may be tricky to get all
>editors available at telcons.  Concern that positive affirmation for
>publication is given by WG members and agreement that this was needed.
>
>ACTION 2002-12-06#11  bwm: work out the voting process for last call
>   approval, possibly involving email.
>
>
>16: Publication Process
>
>See:
>   http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2002Nov/0518.html
>
>Skipped.


-- 
---------------------------------------------------------------------
IHMC(850)434 8903   home
40 South Alcaniz St.(850)202 4416   office
Pensacola              (850)202 4440   fax
FL 32501           (850)291 0667    cell
phayes@ai.uwf.edu          http://www.coginst.uwf.edu/~phayes
s.pam@ai.uwf.edu   for spam



