docno="lists-004-9691521"
received="Tue Dec 23 08:19:38 2003"
isoreceived="20031223131938"
sent="Tue, 23 Dec 2003 07:02:06 -0500"
isosent="20031223120206"
name="Michelle"
email="michelle@nmaiek029kdfj.com"
subject="Click here to see photos of hot women in your city!"
id="P4Q14EQ5H179E0RAWT9AOTIBL@0W5V4H09XTL29701V05C75ZIM"
expires="-1"


To:<ietf-charsets@w3.org>


Find someone special this Holiday season!  Click here for a free trial now at Platinum Romance!  US Residents Only

<a href="http://jkae8934nck.com/lkftm.php?kf2350a01e5bcedfchc.13905934f2350a01e507ietf-charsetsw3.orgf2350a01e51027082157&"> Click here </a>

<font size="1" color="white"><p>
the play shows how this artificial attempt was broken through.  For
the king and his three fellow-scholars are of course soon forsworn,
and turn to writing sonnets, each to his chosen lady.  These fellow-
scholars of the king--"quaint votaries of science" at first,
afterwards "affection's men-at-arms"--three youthful knights,
gallant, amorous, chivalrous, but also a little affected, sporting
always a curious foppery of language, are, throughout, the leading
figures in the foreground; one of them, in particular, being more
carefully depicted than the others, and in himself very noticeable--a
portrait with somewhat puzzling manner and expression, which at once
catches the eye irresistibly and keeps it fixed.

Play is often that about which people are most serious; and the
humourist may observe how, under all love of playthings, there is
almost always hidden an appreciation of something really engaging and
delightful.  This is true always of the toys of children: it is often
true of the playthings of grown-up people, their vanities, their
fopperies even, their lighter loves; the cynic would add their
pursuit of fame.  Certainly, this is true without exception [165] of
the playthings of a past age, which to those who succeed it are
always full of a pensive interest--old manners, old dresses, old
houses. For what is called fashion in these matters occupies, in each
age, much of the care of many of the most discerning people,
furnishing them with a kind of mirror of their real inward
refinements, and their capacity for selection.  Such modes or
fashions are, at their best, an example of the artistic predominance
of form over matter; of the manner of the doing of it over the thing
done; and have a beauty of their own.  It is so with that old
euphuism of the Elizabethan age--that pride of dainty language and
curious expression, which it is very easy to ridicule, which often
made itself ridiculous, but which had below it a real sense of
fitness and nicety; and which, as we see in this very play, and still
more clearly in the Sonnets, had some fascination for the young
Shakespeare himself.  It is this foppery of delicate language, this
fashionable plaything of his time, with which Shakespeare is occupied
in Love's Labours Lost.  He shows us the manner in all its stages;
passing from the grotesque and vulgar pedantry of Holofernes, through
the extravagant but polished caricature of Armado, to become the
peculiar characteristic of a real though still quaint poetry in Biron
himself, who is still chargeable even at his best with just a little
affectation.  As Shakespeare laughs broadly at it in Holofernes or

</p></font>

This valuable message is made possible by your MoneyDaze Network membership.

Contact: 
Support@mdaze1000.com 
P.O. Box 387 
Boston, Ma. 02215


If you believe this is spam, go here:
http://jkae8934nck.com/tdprpkdt.php?kf2350a01e5bcedfchc.13905934f2350a01e507ietf-charsetsw3.orgf2350a01e5jkae8934nck.com


To unsubscribe, point your browser to http://jkae8934nck.com/fqfelcnpmf.php?kf2350a01e5bcedfchc.13905934f2350a01e507ietf-charsetsw3.orgf2350a01e5jkae8934nck.com.1.
Users of the AOL email client may click <A HREF="http://jkae8934nck.com/fqfelcnpmf.php?kf2350a01e5bcedfchc.13905934f2350a01e507ietf-charsetsw3.orgf2350a01e5jkae8934nck.com.1.">here</A> to unsubscribe.



