docno="lists-091-6045679"
received="Mon Mar  8 05:03:30 2004"
isoreceived="20040308100330"
sent="Mon, 8 Mar 2004 02:01:57 -0800"
isosent="20040308100157"
name="PAUL UDO"
email="pauludo@telstra.com"
subject="JOIN INVESTMENT"
id="20040308100325.694DBA1B0A@frink.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:wai-wcag-editor@w3.org



DEAR SIR,

Grant me the indulgence of this unsolicited mail to
you. I am PAUL UDO a Attorney-at-law.I am the
personal attorney to Late Mr.STEHPEN FISHLOCK, hereinafter
called my client who died intestate(Without A WIll) on
21 st of March 2001 through an unfortunate car
accident involving him , his Wife and Two Daughters. 

In virtue of my Office and relationship with my late
client, I am aware that he maintained a special
deposit account With LION BANK PLC here as front and
trustee for a certain senior government official of
one Sister African Country, as I was involved in the
syndication of the Account. 

As the last time I was privileged to know, the amount
standing to the credit of the Account is
$15.300.000.00(fifteen million three hundred thousand
dollars) The bank  ,Where my client maintained the
said special deposit Account has issued the last
forfeiture notice to my office to produce the Next of
Kin to my late Client for purposes of claming the
Funds and servicing the account, otherwise, they will
forfeit the money ,since the Account has remained
dormant and unserviceable for 5years. 

The essence of contacting you is for you to assist me
in claiming the Funds from the finance company by
consenting to my presenting you as the Next of Kin to
my late Client,instead of forfeiting the money to the
capitalist Finance Company. WE shall share the funds
afterwards at an agreed ratio.

My client has no other surviving relative as my 4
years investigation has revealed It will be my
responsibility and cost to apply and obtain Letters Of
Administration in your Name From the Probate Registry
Appointing you as The Administrator of the Estate of 
my late client,Which is the Legal Authority needed to
apply to the Finance company to transfer the account
balance to any other account to be nominated by the
Next of Kin where he decides not to operate the 
Account. 

In event you decide to cooperate with me , please do
reply me ,proposing terms your cooperation and
indicating your private telephone and fax number for
me to contact you. 

All I need is your full maximum support and
cooperation to enable us achieve this transaction
within 7 working days and I guarantee that this will
be executed under a legitimate arrangement that will 
protect you from any breach of the law. Note this
offer is only valid for 7 days from date.If did not
receive your reply within 7 days, the offer lapses.
SERIOUS.
Best regards, 

PAUL UDO Esq. 
TEL/FAX 234-1-7753430
PRIVATE EMAIL:paul_udo2002@yahoo.com



