docno="lists-039-6509956"
received="Fri Aug 13 18:56:11 1999"
isoreceived="19990813225611"
sent="Fri, 13 Aug 1999 15:50:59 -0700"
isosent="19990813225059"
name="Kevin Wiggen"
email="wiggs@xythos.com"
subject="Note on accessing Sharemation via Webdav"
id="LNBBKDGPNJMOJNOBHLLMAEJPCBAA.wiggs@xythos.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:<dav-dev@lyra.org>,<w3c-dist-auth@w3.org>


Unlike http://216.102.212.251/~webdav, where the access permissions were set
to Public READ, WRITE, DELETE, your new accounts on Sharemation will not
automatically have these permissions set.  By default, the server sets the
permissions to only accessible from the owner of the account.

In order to run our security, we use a number of cookies to set user
context.  In order to run a Webdav client against our server, you need to
take those cookies into account (like IE and Office2000).

That being said, you can turn an area in your Sharemation account into a
PUBLIC area.  Simply create a folder, and set the permissions for Public to
READ, WRITE, DELETE (this can be done on the Sharemation Web site).  This
will allow you to run webdav clients without the need for our security
checks.

Example:

I could create a folder, webdav, under my home account.  Using the
Sharemation Web site, I can change the permissions on that folder to be
PUBLIC READ, WRITE, and DELETE.  I can then run my webdav client against
http://www.sharemation.com/~kwiggen/webdav without having to worry about the
security context.

Opening up an area to PUBLIC might be dangerous, as someone might fill up
your 20M of space with junk.  In order to alleviate this, you might want to
set the Quota on the webdav folder (also done on the Sharemation Web site),
to something small (like 1 Meg).  This will keep the area for that folder at
1M while the rest of your account (your non publicly writeable part) will
run with the 20M quota.

Hope this helps,
Kevin



