docno="lists-041-15249586"
received="Thu Nov  7 14:39:53 2002"
isoreceived="20021107193953"
sent="Thu, 7 Nov 2002 11:39:33 -0800"
isosent="20021107193933"
name="Lisa Dusseault"
email="lisa@xythos.com"
subject="RE: WG Agendas for the 55th IETF"
id="000b01c28695$65edfd60$b701a8c0@xythoslap"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="JIEGINCHMLABHJBIGKBCKEPBFLAA.julian.reschke&#64;gmx.de"
expires="-1"

To:"'Julian Reschke'"<julian.reschke@gmx.de>,<w3c-dist-auth@w3c.org>



Yes -- I need help not only in preparing these discussions, but also
leading them at the WG meeting.  I understand you won't be able to make
it to Atlanta, Julian.  Is somebody who will be there able to work with
Julian on understanding and explaining the XML namespace issues and the
allprop Include draft?

lisa

> -----Original Message-----
> From: Julian Reschke [mailto:julian.reschke@gmx.de]
> Sent: Thursday, November 07, 2002 6:36 AM
> To: Lisa Dusseault; w3c-dist-auth@w3c.org
> Subject: RE: WG Agendas for the 55th IETF
> 
> > From: w3c-dist-auth-request@w3.org
> > [mailto:w3c-dist-auth-request@w3.org]On Behalf Of Lisa Dusseault
> > Sent: Wednesday, November 06, 2002 4:10 AM
> > To: w3c-dist-auth@w3c.org
> > Subject: FW: WG Agendas for the 55th IETF
> >
> >
> >
> > I will put together the Agenda for the Atlanta meeting.  Here's some
> > issues that should be discussed.  Volunteers are *really needed* (
to
> > drive discussion on their selected topic) this meeting as I'm
*really
> > swamped* myself!
> >
> >
> > RFC2518bis
> >  - Proposals for client forcing server auth challenge - Ilya?
> >  - Required support for ETags
> >  - If header evaluation/simplification proposals & compatibility -
> > Geoff?
> > Other drafts
> >  - quota draft
> >  - Binding issues coming up on DL
> >  - allprop/include draft
> > Other issues
> >  - Impact of XML namespace changes -- Julian?
> >  - ACL submission status
> >
> > I'm sure I've missed items so let me know.
> 
> Lisa,
> 
> if you need help/assistance in preparing
> 
> >  - allprop/include draft
> 
> and
> 
> >  - Impact of XML namespace changes -- Julian?
> 
> (which should be XML 1.1/ XML namespaces 1.1 changes, right?), please
let
> me
> know.
> 
> Julian
> 
> 



