docno="lists-085-14975870"
received="Thu Nov 29 14:49:14 2001"
isoreceived="20011129194914"
sent="Thu, 29 Nov 2001 14:49:12 -0500"
isosent="20011129194912"
name="Ian B. Jacobs"
email="ij@w3.org"
subject="Re: MINUTES: W3C User Agent Teleconference 29 November 2001"
id="3C069138.75FD06EA@w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="5.1.0.14.2.20011129133223.02470ac0&#64;staff.uiuc.edu"
expires="-1"


To: Jon Gunderson<jongund@uiuc.edu>
CC:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

Hello,

For the record, I'd like to include the usual metadata I
put in minutes:

Agenda announcement: 
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001OctDec/0079
 
Participants: Jon Gunderson (Chair), Tim Lacy, Jim Allan, Harvey
Bingham. Ian was on IRC only.

Absent: Gregory Rosmaita, Rich Schwerdtfeger, Eric Hansen
Mickey Quenzer, Denis Anson, David Poehlman

Previous meeting: 15 November 2001
 http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001OctDec/0075

Next meeting: 13 December (no 6 December meeting)

Reference document 12 September Candidate Recommendation:
  http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/CR-UAAG10-20010912/

I would like to note that thanks to IRC, I was able to 
participate (just a little). I look forward to the WG
continuing to use IRC as a means of participation that
supplements, but does not replace, the telephone.

 _ Ian


Jon Gunderson wrote:
> 
> [13:06] *** Now talking in #UA
> [13:06] *** TimLa has joined #ua
> [13:06] <jongund> Tim joins the call
> [13:06] <jongund> Jim joins the call
> [13:07] <jongund> Jon updates on charter, no news
> [13:08] <jongund> We will probably wait until other documents are up to
> date to set charter timelines
> [13:08] <IanPPWG> I haven't heard from Judy on charter stuff.
> [13:08] <IanPPWG> Hi Tim.
> [13:08] <jongund> Jim is there any news on the UAAG vs. 508
> [13:08] * IanPPWG didn't have time given his meetings this week to work on
> comparison document.
> [13:09] <jongund> Jim did a bunch of changes, sent to katie
> [13:09] <jongund> JA: Has not heard from Katie
> [13:09] <IanPPWG> Jim, it would be good to send changes to the ua list so
> that they are archived, available to others.
> [13:11] <jongund> Tim is there a way we could coordinate on getting the IE
> review reviewed?
> [13:11] <jongund> Tim is checking his schedule
> [13:12] *** HB has joined #ua
> [13:12] <HB> Harvey here
> [13:12] <jongund> Tim says that he and Ron can meet on Monday at 12:00 CST
> to review IE review
> [13:12] <IanPPWG> I will be meeting with Tantek Celik on 11 December to do
> a Mac IE review.
> [13:13] <IanPPWG> Also, as soon as I have time, I have a standing
> rendez-vous with Dirk to do Konqueror review.
> [13:13] * IanPPWG going to invite Dirk to IRC channel.
> [13:13] <jongund> Other concern is UA group participation
> [13:14] <jongund> Since CR people have been participating less
> [13:14] * IanPPWG notes that Dirk not on IRC at this moment, so won't join.
> [13:15] * IanPPWG waves to Harvey
> [13:15] <HB> Thought we'd missed you today. I'm learning IRC.
> [13:16] <IanPPWG> I'm in two meetings at once.
> [13:16] <jongund> We need to increase participation and people taking and
> completing action items
> [13:16] <jongund> Judy is working with disability organizations to try to
> increase their advocacy of UAAG and participate in the UAWG
> [13:17] <jongund> CUrrent working group memebers if they know of good
> people in disability organizations to send their name to Judy, the list,
> Jon and Ian
> [13:18] <jongund> Ian time UAAG will be reduced starting January 1st
> [13:18] <jongund> We will have less of his time to work on documents
> [13:18] <jongund> It is not clear if we will have additional staff help in
> the near future
> [13:19] <jongund> Does anyone here have any ideas on increasing participation?
> [13:19] <jongund> HB was hoping to get a review with ION systems, he will
> contact ad do a review (Action HB)
> [13:19] <HB> HB action: Contact ION Systems.
> [13:20] <jongund> Tim Microsoft already says we already have a large
> participation
> [13:21] *** HB has quit IRC
> [13:22] <jongund> HB er group was going toward QA group
> [13:22] <jongund> HB says er moved stuff to authoring tools
> [13:22] <jongund> JA suggestes talking to other groups
> [13:23] *** HB has joined #ua
> [13:23] <jongund> JA will e-mail stuff when connections come back
> [13:24] <jongund> UAWG will move to meeting every other week after the
> first of the year.
> [13:25] <HB> IonSystems contact has to await indefinitely till I finish my
> current task,
> [13:25] <HB> of which I cannot predict an end. Frustrated? Yes.
> [13:27] <jongund> Tim suggests that people go to curtis chong in usability
> studies
> [13:30] <jongund> IRC discussion
> [13:32] *** TimLa has quit IRC


-- 
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org)   http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Tel:                     +1 718 260-9447



