docno="lists-104-13731482"
received="Wed Jun  4 12:03:16 2003"
isoreceived="20030604160316"
sent="Wed, 4 Jun 2003 09:03:14 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20030604160314"
name="Curt Arnold"
email="curta_ontheroad@yahoo.com"
subject="Re: SOAP and WebDAV with DOM L3 L/S"
id="20030604160314.76336.qmail@web9506.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="SOAP and WebDAV with DOM L3 L/S"
expires="-1"


To:www-dom@w3.org


Curt Arnold wrote:

On Wed, 2003-06-04 at 01:17, Curt Arnold wrote:
> The current L/S draft appears close but insufficient
to invoke SOAP or
> WebDAV methods.  I think it would be very beneficial
if it could.  I 
> believe two additional parameters to parseURI could
be sufficient:
> 
> Document parseURI(DOMString uri, DOMString method,
Document body)
> 
> Where method and body could be null.

Phillipe wrote:
The LS is short at providing an IO library. No HTTP
headers, authentification, etc. You cannot access the
HTTP headers of the received document either. If we
add your proposal, why should we stop half-way? You
can always use an external library to manipulate those
and give an input stream to the DOMBuilder.

--
Supporting SOAP may be too ambitious and nothing I
write that late at night should be considered a
proposal.  Since parseURI is already deployed,
modifying its signature is undesirable.

However, I don't see any obvious way to actually use
the Save part of Load/Save within a browser without
resorting to some browser-specific mechanism to get a
DOMOutputStream.  Having some standard way of doing a
simple HTTP PUT or POST would seem to open up a lot of
possibilities for client-side editing of data.

__________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Calendar - Free online calendar with sync to Outlook(TM).
http://calendar.yahoo.com



