docno="lists-082-14402258"
received="Wed Mar 24 17:19:08 1999"
isoreceived="19990324221908"
sent="Wed, 24 Mar 1999 16:23:04 -0600"
isosent="19990324222304"
name="Jon Gunderson"
email="jongund@staff.uiuc.edu"
subject="MINUTES: WAI UA Telecon 24 March 1999"
id="199903242219.QAA09358@staff1.cso.uiuc.edu"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

Attendance

Chair and Scribe: Jon Gunderson (JRG)
Harvey Bingham (HB)
Kathy Hewitt (KH)
Rob Relyea (RR)
Marja-Riitta Koivunen (MRK)
Denis Anson (DA)
Scott Luebking (SL)
Mark Novak (MN)

Regrets
Ian Jacobs
Kitch Barnicle

Action Items and Conclusions

Completed Action Items
JG: Tell WG when DOM meeting will happen
(http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/1999JanMar/0348.html) 
CMN: Post response to WG on table cell access.
(http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/1999JanMar/0348.html) 
MK: Draft techniques related to multimedia.
(http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/1999JanMar/0353.html) 

Continuing Action Items 
HB: (Deadline 25 March): Table proposal for techniques document.
Editors: Add Cross link in 5.2.4 (and 5.2.6) to 7.3.3. 
CO: (with reservations from CO): Review checkpoints and list those where OS
conventions should be elicited. 
CO: Review 4.3.2 and 4.3.3 for wording and priority. 
IJ: Eric Hansen review of WCGL intro. I will compare and take into account. 

New Action Items
MN: will post information on information exchange and DOM
JRG: respond to MK on multi-media posting
JRG: Post a message saying that the checklist subgrouping will be integrated
into the next working draft based on Jon Gundersons proposal
HB: ACTION post issue on keyboard remapping from the WAI discussions at CSUN 
RR: Respond to HB posting of issue related to work and ideas at MS
DA: will write techniques for 5.5.3 and 5.5.4 
Editors: Integrate checklist subgrouping into next working draft based on JRGs
proposal
(http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/1999JanMar/0254.html),
individual comments can be sent to the list for discussion

Resolutions
Checkpoint subgrouping in Section 5.4 to AT only
Checkpoint subgrouping in Section 5.5 and 6.1 as stated by JRG
(http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/1999JanMar/0254.html) 

Minutes
JRG: Reviewed action items
HB: Report on WAI meetings at CSUN
Keyboard binding remapping for applications and assistive technology
Watched people have alot of transfer
JRG: For AT or mainstream technology
HB: ACTION post issue on keyboard remapping from the WAI discussions
JG: Kathy did it come up ay Microsoft meetings
ACTION Rob respond to HB posting of issue related to work and ideas at MS 
Subgrouping of checkpoints desktop
JG: Discussion of 
DA: If AT is required to do something make sure that infor available from DGUA
JG: The main areas where the checkpoints
DGUA: AT compatibility 7.2.1, 7.2.2
Checkpoint: Tab order of 
SL: How does the person know what the number of the link is?
KH: Power toy available to list pages
Not having HTML markup
Rob: Go to the link to get to the next page
DA: Denis suggested a priority 3
RESOLVED: AT checkpoint
JRG: Discussion what 
DA: didn't CO check say 90% of waht assistive technology needs in IE
HK: I think that it dependends on the AT and we ahve people lokking at that in
many development groups. Decisions are partly based on how they benefit all
people.
DA: What we are saying is that DGUA must implement natively
HK: IE will make sure that information needed by AT will be available
programmatically
DA: In terms of conformance the DGUA must provide the user agents
JRG: 7.2.1 and 7.2.2
DA: Does AA provide information on attributes ROB: As these exposed interfaces
with through AA and object model
JRG: The goal is to define the information to be exchanged ...
DA: The conformance is based on the exchange of information not the mechanism
RESOLVED: AT checkpoints for tables Section 5.4
Leaving the call: KH, ROB, SL
SL: ATM will become browser 
MN: We need to limit the scope of the guidelines to DGUA and AT
DA: Device independence in the checkpoints
JG: We have a separate checkpoint
RESOLVED: Checkpoints in Section 5.5 as stated by JRG
HB: 5.5.3 what is the text content
JRG: This issue needs to be clarified.
DA: The text content is what the user endered or in the control on loading 
HB: Many designs would use both
DA: You want to move around in information that entered
ACTION: DA will write techniques for 5.5.3 and 5.5.4 
Section 6.1
MK: Provide the user with the number of viewports would be easy to implement
for DGUA
JRG: Discussed the we need to have definite disability populations that
benefit
from a feature for DGUA that will not be required to use AT and that we
need to
have an example of a techniques for proposals. Not clear how this would be
useful without some AT.
MN: 6.1.7 ( 10 February WD) If you change viewports how does the user agent
keep track of the view information in hte previos view/
HB: 6.1.7 (10 February WD) Technical issue on how long should a user agent
maintain its point of reguard: how long does it kep the information, what
happens when you navigate to previously viewed page.
RESOLVED: Checkpoints in Section 6.1 as stated by JRG
ACTION: MN will post information on information exchange and DOM
HB: Already has outstanding action
ACTION: JRG respond to MK on multi-media posting
MN: Will you send information to me about tables
JRG: One hour meeting or 90 minute
MN: current meetings are not too long given the amount of work
HB: current meetings are not too long given the amount of work
ACTION: JRG Posting a message saying that the checklist will be integrated
into
the next working draft

Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street
Champaign, IL 61820

Voice: 217-244-5870
Fax: 217-333-0248
E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu
WWW:    http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
        http://www.als.uiuc.edu/InfoTechAccess 



