docno="lists-084-11098733"
received="Sat Sep 30 09:30:43 2000"
isoreceived="20000930133043"
sent="Sat, 30 Sep 2000 09:51:21 -0400"
isosent="20000930135121"
name="Al Gilman"
email="asgilman@iamdigex.net"
subject="user resize SVG objects?"
id="200009301335.JAA959263@smtp1.mail.iamworld.net"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="F0CBA28A8CE1D311B64300508BC2162255587A&#64;SARUMAN"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

Are we ready for SVG buttons?

We have checkpoints that the user should be able to control the size of type. 

We have a checkpoint that the user should be able to control the
presentation scaling (speed of playback) of audio and audio/video
continuous-time media objects.

What about when we have graphic objects where the software can readily
present them at arbitrary scales?

There has been a thread (you may have noticed...) on the topic of small
text in images used as the look of buttons.  That is to say ususally
navigation links with visual content composed of a button image.  The text
in these is usually small and this poses usability problems as compared
with styled text for the low-vision user.  Someone who does use the visual
display but has higher-that-ususal minimums for readable text size.  [Len
has explained this well already.]

What this got me to thinking about is how SVG should play.

The point is that SVG is something where resizing in the client is readily
achievable, at least on the desktop.  So should that control be available
to the user?

The idea is that scalable visual objects could be added alongside text as a
class of stuff that the user should be able to control the size of.  Then
we can haggle over the "minimum implementation" description.

But the basic idea is that controlling the scaling of a scalable visual
(where SVG is the clear W3C branded example) on an object basis
independently from its containing viewport is feasible and valuable.

Options of interest include:

Rescale selected object.

Make it a scroll region.

Reflow around it at new size.

Scale all scalable visuals containing text to meet minimum text size
criterion.

Anyway, here is a new medium which is emerging as our spec goes to press
where, in the pursuit of concreteness, we seem to have left a gap in the
checkpoints right where this medium lives.

Al



