docno="lists-097-2067525"
received="Thu Oct 25 13:37:15 2001"
isoreceived="20011025173715"
sent="Thu, 25 Oct 2001 17:35:43 -0000"
isosent="20011025173543"
name="Jim Ley"
email="jim@jibbering.com"
subject="EARL and Annotea, again."
id="031601c15d7b$7af4aae0$ca969dc3@emedia.co.uk"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:<www-annotation@w3.org>,<w3c-wai-er-ig@w3.org>

Hi,

There have been a number of discussions on www-annotation list about
combining EARL and Annotea [1],  I'm now at the stage of wanting to
implement an EARL client (I'll be announcing my Annotea one shortly,
along with a number of comments.) so was looking for some concensus on
how EARL could/should be embedded within Annotea.

The suggestions seem to be:
  Add the RDF EARL to the Annotation RDF.
  Add the RDF EARL to the BODY of the annotation, either as a link, or
inline.

I'm inclined towards the 2nd, but this would probably cause problems for
the existing clients - there are only 3 AIUI though (4 with mine), so I
don't see this as a reason to block anything too much - I would
definately defer to anyone with more RDF knowledge than me though.

A quick test of placing it in the body, doesn't appear to give any
(extra...) problems with the Annotea server - and my client just displays
the plain text in the RDF... (the other clients I've not tested.)

As I'm crossposting, there's something I think that needs to be added to
both Earl and Annotea, a better method of identifying the page that
you've annotated - There is a very large amount of server generation and
content negotiation now, and this will only grow if CC/PP comes about -
with this, both the EARL report, and the XPointer to a place in a
document, could be refering to something unrelated to the relevant
xpointer (unless there are good id's etc.).  So I think some sort of MD5
(or other) hash of the page would be useful, so a tool can at least know
if the annotation/report applied to a different "page".

Jim.

[1]
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-annotation/2001JanJun/0009.html

http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-annotation/2001JanJun/0081.html



