docno="lists-058-1059467"
received="Thu Apr 22 10:43:08 2004"
isoreceived="20040422144308"
sent="Tue, 20 Apr 2004 09:25:20 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20040420162520"
name="Venkata Krishnan.K"
email="shreeruk@yahoo.com"
subject="&quot;Forwarding My Resume for your Kind Consideration and Persual&quot;"
id="20040420162520.29893.qmail@web20608.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:shreeruk@usa.net


Note: forwarded message attached.





__________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Photos: High-quality 4x6 digital prints for 25?
http://photos.yahoo.com/ph/print_splash

attached mail follows:
Dear Sir/Madam,

      I am enclosing my "Resume" for your Kind
Consideration and Persual as .txt Format. I am
awaiting for your Favourable Reply.


**************************************************
K.VENKATA KRISHNAN    A Career Profile


New No-7,Old No-4,Kuppiah Street,
DF-3,Badani Complex,
West Mambalam,
Chennai-600 033,
Tamilnadu,
India.
Phone :- 91-044-2474-0778
E-mail :- shreeruk@yahoo.com


Objective:      I seek a challenging position
with enough opportunities
for Growth and Development.


Resume Details :


March 20, 2002 - Till Date

Company : Computer Age Management Services India
Private Limited
Position : Team Leader-Transaction Processing

Company Background :

Computer Age Management Services Pvt. Ltd. (CAMS)
offers a comprehensive package of Transaction
Processing and Customer Care services to the
Mutual Fund industry, and has been constantly
raising the bar in customer service since 1995.


Areas of Responsibilities :

?  Lead managing a Team of 10 Executives

? Monitoring & Analyzing Quality of Work made by
Executives

? Training New Executives regarding Transaction
Processing Activities & on the Job Training

? Co-ordinating with Redemption, Purchase &
Posting regarding Investor Related Queries

? Mailing Portfolio Valuation Report, Email
Account Statements, Net Asset Value(NAV) Reports
& Investor Transaction Reports to all the
Registered Investors

? Sending NAVs thro? mail to Leading Financial
Intermediaries, Investment Consultants, brokers
etc

? Broadcasting of Brokers transaction report
thro? mail and sending NAVs. Updating NAVs in our
Website on a daily basis

? Generation of MIS and SEBI reports on a monthly
basis outlaying the performance of the fund

? Providing details of investors holding five
percent of the total corpus of the fund to the
AMC or the financial year

? Creation and Removal of lien against units of
Mutual Fund based on the consent letter received
from both the parties and maintainence of the
said documents

? Setting up Standard Operating Procedures for
Specific Outsourced Projects

? Co-ordination with Clients in the Mutual Fund
Business for effective & smooth functioning of
the outsourced Project

? Setting Key Result Objectives for each
Executive, Preparing & Evaluating Incentive
Parameters


May 10, 2001 - March 15, 2002
 
Company : Ajuba Solutions India Private Limited
Position : Senior Officer - Transaction
Processing
 
Company Background :

Ajuba is an e-service company providing
outsourced business process to clients around the
world, They provide Customized solutions in the
area of Back Office process Management, CRM &
Software Development Services. Ajuba has a 360
seater Call Centre


Areas of Responsibilities :
 
Being worked at Ajuba Solutions India Private
Limited located in the  Hi-Tech complex of Tidel
Park, Chennai in a Hi-Tech environment.
Proficient in the use of Internet, Email, BBS
(Bulletin Board Syestem), FTP (File Transfer
Protocol) and various software packages.
 
? Headed the team to achieve targets and goals
of the division
 
? Motivate the team to achieve high level of
customer satisfaction, co-ordinate with clients
on regular basis on operational issues and also
to build & strengthen relationship

? Training and building the team
 
? Maximise the receivables for the clients
 
? Designing and implementing new systems and
process
 
? Ensuring effective performance of the division
meeting the international standards
 
? Interacting with the overseas management on a
regular basis for effective co-ordination and
smooth workflow
 
? Planning for long-term objectives & growth of
the division and organization as a part of the
core management team of the company
 
November 11, 2000 - January 04, 2001
 
Company : CricInfo India (P) Ltd
Position : Executive-Web Development
 
Company Background :
 
The Company was founded in 1993, is a global
cricket data, publishing and entertainment
company, which specialises exclusively in
cricket. The company occupies a dominant position
worldwide through its electronic publishing
activities via the Internet, Teletext, Hand-Held
devices, and Interactive TV. CricInfo runs
www.cricinfo.com-the world?s leading cricket web
site.
 
Areas of Responsibilities : 
 
Being worked as Executive-Web Development of a
private limited company which specialized in
Media/Entertainment, I have in depth knowledge in
Editorial/Journalism, Content Management, Web
Publishing, General Management, Strategic
Planning, Archiving of Copyright Papers, Site
Maintenance, Operations Control. I am a self
confident, independent and quick problem solver.
I have good interpersonal skill, strong business
sense and quick analytical mind. 
 
Archiving of articles, Uploading of Copyright
Newspaper articles and Site Maintenance, Content
Management, Web Publishing, Player Profiles,
Grounds both Domestic and International matches.
 
With strong sense of responsibility, hands on
management and communication skills. Strong
loyalty and self-motivation.
 
May 05, 1999 - September 09, 2000
 
Company : Vetri Software (India) Limited
Position : Team Leader
 
Company Background:
 
Incorporated in March 1990, VETRI is a privately
held Michigan company that provides Systems and
Software, Electronic Media Services, and
Professional Services. VETRI's mission is to
build partnerships with our clients, creatively
applying technology with a low cost global
workforce to improve their competitive position
in the marketplace. By applying the latest
developments in technology and offering
outstanding outsourcing services, VETRI has
consistently increased their client's
profitability.
 
Areas of Responsibilities :
 
Responsible for a Team of Eight production
members, Content Management, Web Publishing,
Having working knowledge in  SGML, HTML, XML,
E-BOOKS publishing process. Having sound
knowledge in Scanning, Adobe Photoshop.
 
 
Academic Background :
 
PeriodSchool/College/University
 
May 2000 - Mar 2001Ecommerce at SSI, Chennai
 
Jun 1997 - Apr 2000     BCom, University of
                        Madras, Chennai
 
 
Computer Skills :
 
Operating System      : Unix, MS-Dos, MS-Windows
 
RDBMS                 : SQL Server
 
Web Technologies      : Internet Fundamentals,
                        SGML,HTML, DHTML, XML,
                        Java, Java Script,
                        VBScript, Visual
                        Interdev, ASP, IIS,
                        Site Server, Biz Talk
 
Personal Information :-
 
Date of Birth         :       27th August. 1979
 
Marital Status        :       Single
 
Languages Known       :       English, Tamil
 
Nationality           :       Indian
 
 
Passport No           :       E 0289422
 
 
 
Place: CHENNAI
 
Date:                 (K.VENKATAKRISHNAN)

__________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Hotjobs: Enter the "Signing Bonus" Sweepstakes
http://hotjobs.sweepstakes.yahoo.com/signingbonus



