docno="lists-100-16340448"
received="Sun Jun 10 14:26:05 2001"
isoreceived="20010610182605"
sent="Sun, 10 Jun 2001 20:25:33 +0200"
isosent="20010610182533"
name="Dimitris Dimitriadis"
email="dimitris.dimitriadis@improve.se"
subject="Summing up and recap"
id="9F67DC27F4CCD311ABA600508B6A66A44A67AC@VXOIMP1"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:"'www-dom-ts@w3.org'"<www-dom-ts@w3.org>

I'll show the WG what we've accomplished so far during next week's face to
face, as we want to be able to start writing tests for the DOM Level 3 after
the meeting. I'll set up a demo to show how the schema gets generated from
the specification, a sample test and a transform (I'll use test2java.xsl) as
well as explain the framework (I'll take the opportunity of supplementing
the different files where necessary). Hopefully I'll be able to report
feedback to the list next weekend.

The procedural thread that has been active lately I suppose Philippe and
Curt will take care of, as you have been most active. Philippe, could you
please report to the list as soon as we have any news from the W3C on what
framework we could use for the issue tracking? (I take this to include the
general question on where to host the issue tracking system, how to submit
tests as well as the license issue).

A different but related issue is that of details relevant to categories that
have been discussed. I think Curt's original proposal contained everything
relevant but that we should add information to tag a test as "being
investigated by the DOM WG".

Also, I updated the DOM TS page (www.w3.org/DOM/Test), by giving a bit more
detailed account of what we do. However, I've added nothing of substance,
and no pointers since we're not ready to publish yet.

I've heard that we won't have any internet connection during the face to
face, so I'll talk to you on Friday again.

/Dimitris

---

Old action items:

1. How far are we from finalizing the shema? We took the decision to move
against a unified framework but seem to still have som unresolved issues.
Can we deal with theses on the list or should I schedule another telcon?
[schema-specific comments below]

It looks as if we're very close to finalizing the schema. [nearly there]

2. Given that we do indeed finalize this fairly soon, how long will it take
us to translate the existing tests? Mary?

Mary's already started the translations, do you have any example files to
send to the list?

3. We have Fred who's volounteered to write the documentation together with
me. I look forward to start doing this once we've finalized the schema.

We'll start doing this as soon as the schema is ready for publication. I've
already started writing how-to's. I've looked at the SVG test suite
framework, does anyone have any other pointers?



[old action items, see
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-dom-ts/2001May/0137.html]
1. Supply the schema with the construct parts (Curt/Mary/Dimitris) [being
looked into, we still have some issues to resolve]

5. Rewrite styelsheets for code generation (Java and ECMA primarily, others
welcome) (NIST for the Java one, ECMA open) [will be written as soon as the
schema is finalized]

6. Work on the details for test suite packaging (Curt, Dimitris?) [still
needs discussion]

7. Produce documentation (faq, help documentation, test production
descriptions) (Dimitris) [plus Fred]

8. Produce a test matrix (Mary/Dimitris) [pending]

9. Produce a list of semantic requirements (Mary, is connected to the test
matrix) [pending]



