docno="lists-023-1443656"
received="Tue Mar  9 08:55:32 2004"
isoreceived="20040309135532"
sent="Tue, 9 Mar 2004 14:54:45 +0100"
isosent="20040309135445"
name="Thierry MICHEL"
email="tmichel@w3.org"
subject="Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 01/15/04"
id="000f01c405de$159dacb0$1302010a@wistiti"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<public-tt@w3.org>



Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 01/15/04

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Mike Dolan (invited expert) [MD]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, scribe) [GF]
  David Kirby (BBC) [DK]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]

Regrets

  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]
  Sean Hayes, Microsoft (SH)

Absent

************************************************************************
Draft Agenda
************************************************************************

1. Follow-Up on Input from David Pawson Re: TT-AF-1-0-REQ

   [1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Jan/0000.html

2. Scrolling Behavior

   [2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Jan/0024.html

3. Open Action Review

************************************************************************
1. Follow-Up on Input from David Pawson Re: TT-AF-1-0-REQ
************************************************************************

[DK] Points out that syncmaster is not quite right in my example. In
this sort of situation, audio still serves as timing master, yet text
would serve as cueing mechanism to traverse audio timeline.

[GA] Perhaps this should better be expressed with SMIL2 syncBehavior.
Possibly SMIL2 needs more equipment to handle this? Worth investigating.

************************************************************************
2. Scrolling Behavior
************************************************************************

[DS] Describes [2] as initial work on understanding needed scrolling
support.

   [2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Jan/0024.html

[DK] Asks about relationship between temporal fill mode and scrolling.

[GA] Wonders if temporal fill mode is simply higher level (as in more
general) authorial intent, while scrolling parameters are fairly low
level; e.g., a user agent that processes temporal fill mode params
could potentially map to scrolling params to implement behvaior.

Action: [DS] Does scroll-in start when text is invisible or when has
just
filled region in scrolling direction?

[DS] Asks about getting copies of EIA 608/708 demos.

[GF] Will check. Perhaps make part of agenda to repeat demo.

************************************************************************
3. Liaison Status
************************************************************************

[GA] Asks [DS] about status of MPEG-4 Part 17.

[DS] Work is progressing, close to DIS.

[GA] Asks [MD] about status of D27-SDE (Subtitle Data Essence).

[MD] Significant controversy over timing. Split between support for
(use of) relative and absolute time.

[MD] Notes that DC28.10 (payload) and DC28.20 (packaging) are working on
subtitles for digital cinema.

Action: [MD] Will forward info on work of D27-SDE and provide
instructions
for how SMPTE members may be able to get DC28 material.

************************************************************************
4. Open Action Review
************************************************************************

Action: [SH] Will investigate use of media queries in this context and
report back.

Remains open.

Action: [DS with help of Paul Nelson and Peter Lofting] Write RFC to
register appropriate opentype/truetype font types as MIME media types,
suggest model of "application/font-<font-type-name>", e.g.,
"application/font-truetype".

[DS] Sent mail to IETF Area Directors inquiring as to whether we can

Leave open until some resolution.

Action: [GA] Make proposal regarding use of Xlink vocabulary or
"src" attribute.

Remains open.

Action: [GF] Investigate whether to use IRIs instead of URIs?
Note: XPointer and Namespaces in 1.1 use IRIs?

[GF] will work on formulation of a resolution.

[TM] will help.

Action: [SH] Investigate use of "role" vs "class" attribute.

Remains open.

Action: [GA] Investigate selection of non-TT vocabulary for
application of style/timing semantics.

Remains open.

Action: [GA] and [GF] Investigate mechanism for cascading
semantics and whether to support cascading on either or both
logical and presentation flowed vocabularies.

Remains open.

Action: [GA] to package above comments for review by TTWG, then
send to commenters once accepted.

Done.

Follow-On Action: [GA] Draft new requirement on "Integrability"
in general terms that should not impact testing or implementation
requirements.

Action: [GA] incorporate agreed changes into TT-AF-1-0-REQ in
preparation for publishing final W3C Note.

Remains open.

Action: [SH] will review and propose subset of aural parameters
(see R305).

Remains open.

Action: [GA] to request clarification from David Pawson on intent of
comment.

Done.

************************************************************************
7. Next Meetings
************************************************************************

01/22/04 - Telecon
01/29/04 - Telecon
02/04/04 - F2F - WGBH, Cambridge
02/05/04 - F2F - WGBH, Cambridge
02/06/04 - F2F - WGBH, Cambridge

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [SH] Will investigate use of media queries in this context and
report back.

Action: [DS with help of Paul Nelson and Peter Lofting] Write RFC to
register appropriate opentype/truetype font types as MIME media types,
suggest model of "application/font-<font-type-name>", e.g.,
"application/font-truetype".

Action: [GA] Make proposal regarding use of Xlink vocabulary or
"src" attribute.

Action: [GF] Investigate whether to use IRIs instead of URIs?
Note: XPointer and Namespaces in 1.1 use IRIs?

Action: [SH] Investigate use of "role" vs "class" attribute.

Action: [GA] Investigate selection of non-TT vocabulary for
application of style/timing semantics.

Action: [GA] and [GF] Investigate mechanism for cascading
semantics and whether to support cascading on either or both
logical and presentation flowed vocabularies.

Action: [GA] to package above comments for review by TTWG, then
send to commenters once accepted.

Action: [GA] Draft new requirement on "Integrability"
in general terms that should not impact testing or implementation
requirements.

Action: [GA] incorporate agreed changes into TT-AF-1-0-REQ in
preparation for publishing final W3C Note.

Action: [SH] will review and propose subset of aural parameters
(see R305).

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

Issue: Whether to use XLink vocabulary, e.g., as used consistently by
SVG, or use "src" attribute as apparently will be done in XHTML2?

Issue: Whether to use IRIs instead of URIs? Note: XPointer and
Namespaces in 1.1 use IRIs?

Issue: Should we use "class" instead of "role"?

Issue: Probably want to permit in logical content mode the selection of
content based on generic XML features of non-TT namespace descriptive
markup, e.g., for applying style and timing semantics, in which case an
appropriate TT container element shall be implied based on nearest
ancestor TT namespace element.

Issue: Need to think about cascading semantics; how to express, how to
apply, etc. Possibly use CSS semantics here as well.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



Thierry MICHEL
W3C/ERCIM



