docno="lists-076-5009011"
received="Wed Sep  6 10:36:04 2000"
isoreceived="20000906143604"
sent="Wed, 06 Sep 2000 15:35:11 +0100"
isosent="20000906143511"
name="Paul Davis"
email="paul@ten-20.com"
subject="Off topic"
id="4.3.1.0.20000906144255.00aff510@ten-20.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:sinarmaya@retemail.es
Cc:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org

Dear Emmanuelle,

I do not intend to post another comment on this matter as I am sure your 
intentions are very honorable, however seeing as I have just consigned 
another waste bin to the scrap heap, I feel a certain amount of frustration 
at the lack of understanding of the nature of the internet in certain 
circles. Anarchy rules in cyberspace. You can legislate until you are blue 
in the face it don't mean diddley squat to the guy with a lap top in outer 
Mongolia or even down town Madrid.

It is naive to believe that we all play by the same set of rules, and 
integrity is not in the dictionary of some web based organizations. Please 
do not be offended, as I really applaud your motives, but it is time that a 
few individuals received their wake up call. We and I use the word 
collectively, We are not all nice people, you obviously are, so apply your 
standards and integrity to others.

The moment you pass your list to anyone, it will be open thus obtainable. 
Besides, some jerk is bound to email it, saving the time and trouble of 
creating a database from the hard copy. The true value to commercial minds 
of the internet is easily obtained and stored information on companies and 
private individuals. If you restrict this list to a very few people, what 
is the point of having it? You will be saying to commerce in general "I 
have this list, it's a big one, but I can't show it to you" Credibility 
problem here.

Emmanuelle, I empathize with you, and if you wish to put your point of view 
and appeal in an article I will happily publish in the ten-20 magazine, as 
I would for any other member of this list. What is more I promise not to 
have a copy of any emails stored on the server (4th greatest lie in the 
world). The offer is a genuine one however.

Smiles
Paul Davis



www.ten-20.com The UK portal site for disabled people and associated 
Professionals.

----------


----------
  



