docno="lists-029-2732518"
received="Thu Feb 12 03:24:11 2004"
isoreceived="20040212082411"
sent="Mon, 9 Feb 2004 23:22:08 -0800 (PST)"
isosent="20040210072208"
name="Bush Clinton"
email="henrywalter@mmail.com"
subject="PLEASE GET BACK TO ME MY NEXT OF KIN OF LATE GILBERT CARROLL"
id="20040210072208.915987260@sitemail.everyone.net"
expires="-1"

To:site-comments@w3.org



Dear  Sir

Please permit me to inform you that this proposal does
not have anything to do with ill intention or is it a
child play. Please if you receive it and after going
through it, you found youre self not interested in
it, Please kindly destroy it.

First, I must solicit your confidence in this
transaction; this is by virtue of its nature as being
utterly confidential and top secret.  Though I know
that a transaction of this magnitude will make any one
apprehensive and worried, but I am assuring you that
all will be well at the end of the day.  We have
decided to contact you due to the urgency of this
transaction, as we have been reliably informed of your
discreetness and ability in transaction of this nature
by  your country man  who works in our embassy.

Let me start by introducing myself properly to you.  I
am MR. BUSH CLINTON Credit Officer with the Magnum
Trust Bank Plc, Lagos.  I came to know you in my
Private Search for a Reliable and Reputable Person to
handle this Confidential Transaction, which involves
the transfer of Huge Sum of Money to a Foreign Account
with Maximum Confidence.

THE PROPOSITION IS AS FOLLOWS:

A Foreigner, an American, Late GILBERT CARROLL(Snr.)
an Oil Merchant with The Federal Government of
Nigeria, until his death months ago in Kenya Air Plane
(A310 - 300) Flight KQ430, Banked with us at Magnum
Trust Bank Plc, Lagos and had a closing balance as at
the end of September, 2000 worth US$25,000,000.00
(TWENTY Five Million Dollars), the bank now expects a
next of kin as beneficiary. And I was contacted to do
so. Valuable efforts were made by me Magnum Trust Bank
Plc to get in touch with any of the CARROLL'SFamily or
Relatives but to no success.

It  is because of the perceived possibility of not
being able to locate any of Late Engr. GILBERT
CARROLL(Snr.)s next of kin (He had no wife or
children that is known to us).  The Management under
the influence of our Chairman and Members of the Board
of Directors, made an arrangment for the fund to be
declared Unclaimed and subsequently be donated to
the trust fund for arms and ammunition to further
enhance the course of War in Africa and the World in
General.

In  order  to avert this negative development, some of
my trusted colleagues and I now seek your permission 
to have you  stand as next of kin to Late Engr.GILBERT
CARROLL(Snr.) so that the fund US$25 Million(twenty
five million us dollars) will be released and paid
into your Account as the beneficiarys next of kin. 
All documents and proves to enable you get this fund
will be carefully worked out.  We have secure from the
probate an order of madamus to locate any of deceased
beneficiaries, and more so we are assuring you that
this business is 100% Risk Free involvement.  Your
share stays while the rest be for myself and my
vcolleagues for investment purpose.  According to
agreement within both parties.

As soon as we receive an acknowledgment or receipt of
this message in acceptance of our  mutual business
proposal, we would furnish you with the necessary
modalities and disbursement ratio to suite both
parties without any conflict.

If this proposal is acceptable by you, do not make
undue advantage of the trust we have bestowed in you.

Best Regards.



MR. BUSH CLINTON .
CREDIT  OFFICER (MTB)








_____________________________________________________________
Sign up for FREE email from MMAIL.com at http://www.mmail.com



