docno="lists-033-1930900"
received="Thu Oct 10 16:20:05 2002"
isoreceived="20021010202005"
sent="Thu, 10 Oct 2002 13:20:02 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20021010202002"
name="kevin ozor"
email="kevin_ozorppp@yahoo.com"
subject="URGENT AND CONFIDENTIAL"
id="20021010202002.8222.qmail@web13107.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org


MR.Kevin ozor
PHONE:(874)-762864167, 
FAX  :(874)-762864168


  (URGENT AND CONFIDENTIAL)

RE:  TRANSFER OF ($ 126,000.000.00 USD}
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY SIX MILLION DOLLARS

Dear Sir,

We want to transfer to overseas account             
($ 126,000.000.00 USD) One hundred and twenty six
million United States Dollars) from a Prime Bank here
in South Africa, I want to ask you, If you are not
capable to quietly look for a reliable and honest
person who will be capable and fit to provide either
an existing bank account or to set up a new Bank a/c
immediately to receive this money, even an empty a/c
can serve to receive this money, as long as you will
remain honest to me till the end for this important
business trusting in you and believing in God that
you will never let me down either now or in future.

I am the Auditor General of one of the prime banks
here in South Africa, during the course of our
auditing,I discovered a floating fund in an account
opened in the bank in 1996 and since 1998 nobody has
operated on this account again,after going through
some old files in the records I discovered that the
owner of the account died without a [Heir/WILL] hence
the money is floating and if I do not remit this money
out urgently it will be forfeited for nothing. The
owner of this account is PEDRO F. HASLER a foreigner,
a great industrialist and he died since 1998.No other
person knows about this account or any thing
concerning it, the account has no other beneficiary
and my investigation proved to me as well that until
his death he was the manager GOLD ARK [pty]. SA.

We will start the first transfer with twenty six
million [$26,000.000] upon successful transaction
without any disappoint from your side, we shall
re-apply for the payment of the remaining rest amount
to your account.

The total amount involved is (USD 126 M) One hundred
and twenty six million United States Dollars only. I
want to first transfer $26,000.000 [Twenty six million
United States Dollar] from this money into a safe
foreigners account abroad before the rest. But I
don't know any foreigner, I am only contacting you as
a foreigner because this money can not be approved to
a local person here, without valid international
foreign passport, but can only be approved to any
foreigner with valid international passport or drivers
license and foreign a/c  because the money is in US
dollars and the former owner of the  a/c is a
foreigner too, and the money can only be approved into
a foreign a/c.

However, we will sign a binding agreement, to bind us
together when we meet face to face after the first
transfer of 26 million before transferring the second
part of 100 million. I am revealing this to you with
believe in God that you will never let me down in this
business, you are the first and the only person that I
am contacting for this business, so please reply
urgently so that I will inform you the next step to
take urgently. Send also your private telephone and
fax number including the full details of the account
to be used for the deposit.

I want us to meet face to face to build confidence and
to sign a binding agreement that will bind us together
immediately after the first transfer before we fly to
your country for withdrawal, sharing and investments.

I need your full co-operation to make this work fine
because the management is ready to approve this
payment to any foreigner who has correct information
of this account, which I will give to you upon your
positive response and once I am convinced that you are
capable and will meet up with instruction of  a key
bank official who is deeply involved with me in this
business. I need your strong assurance that you will
never, never let me down.

With my influence and my position in the bank the bank
official can transfer this money to any foreigner's
reliable account that you can provide with assurance
that this money will be intact pending our physical
arrival in your country for sharing. The bank official
Will destroy all documents of transaction immediately
we receive this money leaving no trace to any place
and to build confidence you can call me for heart to
heart discussion through my private satellite phone
which I secured for the security and safety of this
business as you know that this business is
confidential.I will use my position and influence to
obtain all legal approvals for onward transfer of this
money to your account with appropriate clearance from
the relevant ministries and foreign exchange
departments.

At the conclusion of this business, you will be given
35% of the total amount, 60% will be for me, while 5%
will be for expenses both parties might have incurred
during the process of transferring.

I look forward to your earliest reply through my email
address.

Yours truly

Kevin Ozor





__________________________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Faith Hill - Exclusive Performances, Videos & More
http://faith.yahoo.com



