docno="lists-041-16764826"
received="Sun May  4 15:46:34 2003"
isoreceived="20030504194634"
sent="Sun, 4 May 2003 21:46:15 +0200"
isosent="20030504194615"
name="Julian Reschke"
email="julian.reschke@gmx.de"
subject="Status of PROPFIND allprop/include"
id="JIEGINCHMLABHJBIGKBCIEJJHDAA.julian.reschke@gmx.de"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:<w3c-dist-auth@w3.org>
Cc:"Jim Whitehead"<ejw@cse.ucsc.edu>,"Lisa Dusseault"<lisa@xythos.com>


Jim, Lisa,

in

 http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-dist-auth/2003JanMar/0073.html

I tried to summarize the consensus of the attendees at the interim meeting
regarding the allprop/include issue.

1) I'd like to confirm that this was the solution we agreed upon?

2) I'd like to gather feedback on how we proceed with this change. One
approach (a) would be that I update


http://greenbytes.de/tech/webdav/draft-reschke-webdav-allprop-include-03.htm
l

with the new marshalling and let this be published as experimental RFC (the
drawback being that it uses elements in the DAV: namespace, thus should
really be a WG submission). Another approach (b) would be to start a new WG
document, and try to get it published as "proposed standard" ASAP.

What I really *don't* want to do is to wait for RFC2518bis, partly because
it's unclear when we'll be done with it, and also because at that point of
time we really should already have interoperable implementations of this.

Regards,

Julian




application/octet-stream attachment: w3c-dist-auth_w3.org_from_January_to_March_2003_Status_of_allp.url




