docno="lists-043-7701991"
received="Sat Sep  7 00:23:16 2002"
isoreceived="20020907042316"
sent="Sat, 07 Sep 2002 05:24:58"
isosent="20020907092458"
name="DR JIM FREDRICK KANANGA"
email="drjimfredk20@techemail.com"
subject="URGENT AND CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS PROPOSAL"
id="200209070423.AAA07627@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-formal-assertion-testbed@w3.org


FROM THE DESK OF
DR JIM KANANGA
NNPC

TEL: 234-80-3301 9632

CONFIDENTIAL AND URGENT BUSINESS PROPOSAL

I am DR JIM KANANGA Chairman of Contract Award and
Verification Panel setup by the Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). I got your contact from
the Nigeria Chember of Commerce And Industries,and
after thorough enquiries and deliberations,I and my
colleagues decided to contact you for a very
confidential business transaction of mutual benefit.

During our verification exercise, we came across an
over-invoiced contract(Contract No: NNPC/PED/1473/96).
This contract was awarded in July,1996 and completed
in August, 1998, and the original contractor has since
been paid his contract sum leaving the over-invoiced
sum of US$25.5m(Twenty Five Million,Five Hundred
Thousand United States Dollars) This amount have been
left floating in our account with the Central Bank 
of Nigeria, until our recent discovery. My colleagues
and I have decided to seek for the assistance of a
reliable foreign partner into whose account the fund
will be transferred into for our own use. If this
proposal is acceptable to you, a Deed of Transfer of
the above contract will be obtained on your behalf,
to empower you as the legal beneficiary of the
contract
and the sum to be transferred.

All necessary and relevant documents will be procured
for the release and transfer of the fund into your
nominated account. An application for foreign exchange
allocation will be made on your behalf from my office
to the federal ministry of finance (FMF) and the
Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN) for the subsequent
release and transfer of the fund into your nominated
account. Be informed that we are working in
collaboration with top officials of the federal
ministry of finance and the Central Bank of Nigeria
(CBN)who will assist us in the transfer of the fund.
With your cooperation the success of this transaction
is guaranteed.

We have agreed to compensate you with 25% of the total
sum and , 70% will befor me and my colleagues here
,while the remaining 5%have been mapped-out for
miscellaneous expensesthat might be incurred by both
parties during the course of thistransaction.
Allthings being equal, this transaction will be
concluded within 14working days upon the day of
receipt of your response.You are required to fax us
your nominated bank account details and your direct
telephone and fax numbers. Please treat this
transaction with top priority and remember to keep it
as confidential as possible.

As soon as we receive your response, more details
about how to proceed will be given to you.


We await your prompt response.

Best Regards,

Dr. jim kananga
Chairman,Contract Award & Verification Panel



