docno="lists-008-8535448"
received="Thu Nov  7 10:04:31 2002"
isoreceived="20021107150431"
sent="Thu, 7 Nov 2002 15:06:51 +0100"
isosent="20021107140651"
name="MRS MARIAM ABACHA"
email="lawnanan2002@uymail.com"
subject="ATTENTION"
id="200211071504.gA7F4RB08606@frink.w3.org"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"


To:ietf-discuss@w3.org


Dear Sir,

Following the sudden death of my husband General Sani
Abacha the former head of state of Nigeria in August
1998, I Have  been thrown into a state of utter
confusion, frustration and hopelessness by the present
civilian administration, I have been subjected to
physical and psychological torture by the security
agents in the country. 
My son is still under detention arraigned before the
federal high court of Nigeria for an offence he did
not commit. As a widow that is so traumatized, I have
lost confidence with anybody within the country. You
must have heard over the media reports and the
internet on the recovery of various huge sums of money
deposited by my husband in different security firms
abroad, some companies willingly give up their secrets
and disclosed our money confidently lodged there or
many outrightblackmail. 
In fact the total sum discovered by the Government so
far is in the tune of $700M. Million dollars. And they
are not relenting to make me poor for life. I got your
contacts through my personal research,and out of
desperation decided to reach you through this medium.I
will give you more information as to this regard as
soon as you reply. I repose great confidence in you
hence my approach to you due to security network
placed on my day to day affairs I cannot afford to
visit the embassy so that is why Idecided to contact
you and I hope you will not betray my confidence in
you. I have deposited the sumof 40.3 million dollars
with a security firm abroad whose name is witheld for
now until we open  communication.
I shall be grateful if you could receive this fund
into your account for safe keeping.

This arrangement is known to you and my son Mustapha
alone, so my son will deal directly with you as
security is up my whole being.I am seriously
considering to settle down abroad in a friendly
atmosphere like yours as soon as this fund get into
your account so that I can start all over again if
only you wish, but if it is impossible,just help me in
diverting this fund into your account which will
accrue you 30% of this fund .
Please honesty is the watch word in this transaction.I
will require your telephone and fax numbers so that we
can commence communication immediately and I will give
you a more detailed picture of things.In case you dont
accept please do not let me out to the security as I
am giving you this informationin total trust and
confidence I will greatly appreciate if you accept my
proposal in good faith.
Please expedite action.
 Regards
 Hajia mariam abacha.



