docno="lists-101-6390115"
received="Tue Feb  5 17:38:41 2002"
isoreceived="20020205223841"
sent="Tue, 5 Feb 2002 15:39:22 -0700 "
isosent="20020205223922"
name="Arnold, Curt"
email="Curt.Arnold@hyprotech.com"
subject="RE: dom1-core-jar works (was: Re: Build failed (dom1-core-jar))"
id="70E215722F6AD511820A000103D141D40AA788@thor.aeathtl.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="dom1-core-jar works (was: Re: Build failed (dom1-core-jar))"
expires="-1"


To:"'www-dom-ts@w3.org'"<www-dom-ts@w3.org>

>I'd like us to take some kind of decision on how long to wait for input 
>from Edward. So far, we've aimed at the end of January, beginning of 
>February at the latest for releasing the DOM Level 1 Core TS.  I'd like 
>for us not to end up too far from that.

So far it has been about 72 hours.  The patch did reach the JSUnit mailing
list and I sent it to edward@jsunit.net, however it would be nice to email a
more direct email address in case there is a forwarding problem.  I'll try
to find one tonight.

Given the audience, I don't think adding the Doxygen documentation will
prove to be a bandwidth burden and I would lean toward 2, though it would be
nice to know how much the Doxygen documentation adds to the archive size.

1: 0
2: [dd] 1, [ca] 0.8
3: 0
4: 0


The "logic" (if you could call it that) that detects whether Mozilla has
completed loading an XML document appears to be broken.  Basically, there is
a loop in DOMTestCase.js that checks if the document element tag name has
changed from a bogus initial value and if it has not then it puts up an
alert() box to stall for time.  With Mozilla 0.9.8, the document element tag
name does not change within the loop and so it will put up the maximum
number of alert boxes (5) per load attempt.  However, the document appears
to be ready almost immediately.  I'm going to change the maximum number of
alert boxes to 1 which will significantly reduce the pain of running the
Mozilla tests.

Has anyone tried running the JSUnit tests on the web?



