docno="lists-060-5867465"
received="Mon Jan 26 17:04:16 2004"
isoreceived="20040126220416"
sent="Mon, 26 Jan 2004 17:05:34 -0500"
isosent="20040126220534"
name="Jan Richards"
email="jan.richards@utoronto.ca"
subject="AUWG Minutes (Jan. 26, 2004)"
id="40158F2E.93EE1AF@utoronto.ca"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:"List (WAI-AUWG)"<w3c-wai-au@w3.org>


AUWG Minutes (Jan. 26, 2004)

PARTICIPANTS

JT: Jutta Treviranus
GP: Greg Pisocky
JR: Jan Richards
KM: Karen Mardahl
KH: Kip Harris
BF: Barry Feigenbaum

REGRETS

Matt May
Tim Boland
Roberto Scano
Geoff Deering

=====================================================================

KH introduces BF.

KH will be with the group through F2F, but BF will replace KH after the
F2F.

===========================

JT How are people doing on the work items?

GL1 =====================

KH: So the original reason fro changing techs for 1.1 is to simpligy
references?

JT: Yes, there is an uneven quality of referenced documents. So we
wanted to go to a more universal approach. Began by looking at IBM SAG
and moved focus to the ISO.

Action Item: Change the "Success Criteria" wording in guidelines to
point to the ISO16071.

JR: Brings up question of how the ISO is referenced. The current wording
seems to be a filtering of the ISO.

JT: Maybe we should flip it around. Maybe make techniques into a
synopsis of ISO?

KM: Added "techniques" to glossary. (i.e. that they are informational
suggestions)

JT: Let's talk to Tim about doing a bit of interpretative text around
ISO instead of the comparative text we have now.

GL3 =====================

JR: Propose that we just publish GL to the TR.

KH: Good idea.

All: AGREED.

GL4 =====================

JR: Updated.

WIDE VIEW + GLOSSARY =====================

KM: Things are moving forward, KM taking issues MM.

REFERENCES =========================

GP Working on it in conjunction with KM.

CHARTER:

Revised version going out soon.

F2F Update ==========================

KH - Hotel update - everyone needs to get in touch with Kip about the
hotel reservation.

KH - Have several room possibilities - conference room (ok) - IBM
executive centre (very nice) - business dress code - no sneakers, no
jeans, collar shirts. Connectivity the same in both. Will post to list.

JT: Everyone register soon! And talk to Kip about the Hotel.

KH: Will investigate restaurants

Issues ==========================

KM: Would like to take responsibility for #1, #3, #6.

JT: What do people think about having an extra meeting next week to
address the guideline?

ACTION JT: There will be an additional AUWG meeting next Monday (Feb 2)
to address outstanding issues before publishing to TR.

ACTION: JR to break out Issues into mailings to the list.

====================================

If anything was missed please mail the list.



