docno="lists-016-0847022"
received="Thu Jul 10 05:58:18 2003"
isoreceived="20030710095818"
sent="Thu, 10 Jul 2003 10:58:13 +0100"
isosent="20030710095813"
name="Richard Ishida"
email="ishida@w3.org"
subject="MINUTES: I18n GEO teleconference 030709"
id="003b01c346c9$c70ec2b0$6401a8c0@w3c40upc3ma3j2"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To:<public-i18n-geo@w3.org>



MINUTES 

W3C I18n GEO Phone Conference
9 July 2003

Present: Richard (chair, scribe), Lloyd, Phil, Tex, Russ, Martin, Andrew

Regrets/Absent: Steve, Suzanne, Peter, Barry, Leslie, John



New Actions
============

ACTION RI, send out note requesting article for LRC's Localisation Focus
magasine for people to consider contributing

ACTION: Tex, to ping a couple of external list moderators to see if we
should announce there too.

ACTION: RI, ask Suzanne whether we can announce on her list.


Prior Action Items
==============

ACTION: AC, write up some text about byte order marks that could be used
to develop section 2.2
ongoing

ACTION: Lloyd, write up some code samples relating to date formats and
link to them from the Q&A page at a later date

ACTION: RI, look into a sponsor for ftf in Atlanta

All: send in pointers to existing guidelines 



Meetings
===========

Next FTF - Atlanta, Georgia, USA.  6th September 2003.  One day.
Meeting location: suggestions welcome !



Info share
==============
Martin found it very helpful to use the Q&A on Multilingual Forms (and
its code snippet) to explain something to a colleague.
http://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-forms-utf-8.html



Framework
==========

Richard spent all day today merging GEO and WAI DTDs.  There is now only
one DTD.  WAI are also beginning to look at developing different
document views, building off the views that GEO has.  WAI had already
done some work on the DTD to build in the latest version of XMLSpec, so
we are already beginning to share development work in both directions.

DTD documentation has been updated.  It is linked from the lower right
part of the http://www.w3.org/International/geo page.




Outreach 
=======================

Topic: Article for LRC's Localisation Focus magasine 
ACTION RI, send out note requesting article for LRC's Localisation Focus
magasine for people to consider contributing
We discussed an idea that presents each of the members of the WG with a
couple of paras about what we're interested in and what our motivations
are, with a sidebar for info about the achievements of the group


Topic: How to more widely publicise our Q&A work?
AGREED: We will send an announcement to www-international each time we
publish a new Q&A
AGREED: We will set up an index page for Q&A's that solicits questions
from readers, but makes no promises that we will develop answers.  On
the other hand, questions will be transferred to our question notepad
http://www.w3.org/International/geo/upload/2003/questions/ - this should
help us get some ideas about what people want to know.  The index page
should also invite people to participate in GEO and point to joining
instructions. 
AGREED: We won't develop the Q&As on the www-international list.  It's
more manageable to deal with a small group for this.  If we get a lot of
feedback after publication we can revisit this.

ACTION: Tex, to ping a couple of external list moderators to see if we
should announce there too.
ACTION: RI, ask Suzanne whether we can announce on her list.


Q&A Review
=========================

Phil's Q&A
-----------------------
Agreed to publish this evening.


Richard's build on Phil's Q&A
-------------------------------------------

See point [6] at
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jul/0010.html
Group thought this was a good candidate for a new Q&A
Need to find a short title question
Need to also break it up a little visually so it's not so intimidating,
but the text is quite polished (some felt it would be ok as is)
Some discussion about making this part of a separate thematic article,
but decided to stick with Q&A for now - could use for other stuff too,
later
Add concerns related to user to last para


Richard's new css vs markup for bidi Q&A
--------------------------------------------------------------
http://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-bidi-css-markup.html
Agreed that this would be good to publish next week, since we don't have
anything from Lloyd yet.
Small edits suggested.



Upcoming assignments
----------------------------------
Send to group (latest)Agree to publish
Martin: DONE 25 June
Richard:DONE2 July
Tex/Phil:DONE9 July
Richard:DONE16 July [css vs markup
for bidi]
Lloyd:11 Jul23 July [see his 5
questions]
Tex21 Jul31 July [what is bidi
and which langs]
Andrew28 Jul6 August
Martin4 aug13 aug
Richard11 aug20 aug [international vs
multilingual sites]
Tbd18 aug
Tbd25 aug
Tbd1 sept
Russ8  sept17 sept

Note:
We are likely to receive something from John Yunker
We are likely to receive something from Yves Savourel




Next meeting:
==========
Same time, same bridge, next week.



============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/ 
http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/



