docno="lists-086-8566869"
received="Mon May  5 13:28:13 1997"
isoreceived="19970505172813"
sent="Mon, 5 May 1997 13:27:52 -0400 (EDT)"
isosent="19970505172752"
name="Al Gilman"
email="asgilman@access.digex.net"
subject="Web-readable list archives"
id="199705051727.NAA06549@access2.digex.net"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="m0wOGvP-0001MTC&#64;gimp.com"
expires="-1"


To:dev-access@world.std.com,w3c-wai-wg@w3.org
Cc:lynx-learners@sasquatch.com,lynx-dev@sig.net

  From: rsykes@gimp.com (Roland W. Sykes Mobile DIMENET Host)
  DIMENET Carries the dev-access discussion as dnet.dev-access within DIMENET.
  
  You can visit us at http://www.dimenet.com/hotnews
  
  We would all be very glad to help you advocate for an accessible world.  
  Including the Virtual Space.
  
Al, here..

Jeff, since you "shouldn't look a gift horse in the mouth," let me ask:

Roland, did you get permission from Jeff to create this archive?

List subscribers, if you are interested in how our laundry looks or
sounds in public, please take a minute to compare/contrast the
above installation with the prototype at

  http://www.access.digex.net/%7Easgilman/dev-access/1/

One difference that may not be obvious has to do with the
follow-up links in the prototype at my site.  This is part of a
campaign I am on to get the work processes of the Web Access
Initiative modified to make them more welcoming to internet users
who move in the slow lane.

With extended mailto: URLs such as I show in the prototype, and
Lynx or Netscape as your browser, or any others that have
implemented the Internet Draft redefining the mailto: URL syntax,
you can be a full participant in the group discussion without
subjecting yourself to a firehose of list email in your inbox.

In the past this has mattered.  The lynx-learners list exists
because lynx-dev is too much of a firehose for the lynx-learners
subscribers.  Lynx-dev is a good model for what the working
medium of the Initiative will be like if we don't do something to
get some accomodations in the process model for the Initiative.
We should be applying the lessons learned in the Lynx community
to create a more accessible process infrastructure for the 
Initiative.

--
Al Gilman



