docno="lists-099-0058796"
received="Fri Apr 11 09:35:41 2003"
isoreceived="20030411133541"
sent="Fri, 11 Apr 2003 06:35:31 -0700"
isosent="20030411133531"
name="Martin Gudgin"
email="mgudgin@microsoft.com"
subject="RE: SOAP 1.2 PR Documents"
id="7C083876C492EB4BAAF6B3AE0732970E0B1A4E6F@red-msg-08.redmond.corp.microsoft.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="SOAP 1.2 PR Documents"
expires="-1"


To:"Jean-Jacques Moreau"<jean-jacques.moreau@crf.canon.fr>
Cc:"Henrik Frystyk Nielsen"<henrikn@microsoft.com>,"Marc Hadley"<marc.hadley@sun.com>,"Nilo Mitra"<EUSNILM@am1.ericsson.se>,"Noah Mendelson"<noah_mendelsohn@us.ibm.com>,"W3C Public Archive"<www-archive@w3.org>,<ylafon@w3.org>,"David Fallside"<fallside@us.ibm.com>,"Carine Bournez \(E-mail\)"<carine@w3.org>


Yes, I added a paragraph to the start of Section 5[1] and removed the
entry from Section 1[2]

Gudge

[1] http://www.w3.org/2000/xp/Group/3/04/11/soap12-part1.html#soapenv
[2] http://www.w3.org/2000/xp/Group/3/04/11/soap12-part1.html#notation

> 
> -----Original Message-----
> From: Jean-Jacques Moreau [mailto:jean-jacques.moreau@crf.canon.fr] 
> Sent: 11 April 2003 14:26
> To: Martin Gudgin
> Cc: Jean-Jacques Moreau; Henrik Frystyk Nielsen; Marc Hadley; 
> Nilo Mitra; Noah Mendelson; W3C Public Archive; 
> ylafon@w3.org; David Fallside; Carine Bournez (E-mail)
> 
> The AI list also mentions issue 355:
> > 2003/04/09: Editors
> >     Incorporate 'proper' of Issue 355 (not fully implemented 
> > previously)
> 
> So did you do both of 421 and 422?
> 
> JJ.
> 
> Martin Gudgin wrote:
> 
> > I think the only issue resolutions were 421 and 422 ( 
> Comments and the 
> > redundant namespace entry in the table in Part 1 ).
> > 
> > I'm sorting out the TOC now, Yves is on holiday
> > 
> > Gudge
> > 
> > 
> >>-----Original Message-----
> >>From: Jean-Jacques Moreau [mailto:jean-jacques.moreau@crf.canon.fr]
> >>Sent: 11 April 2003 14:22
> >>To: Martin Gudgin
> >>Cc: Henrik Frystyk Nielsen; Marc Hadley; Nilo Mitra; Noah 
> Mendelson; 
> >>W3C Public Archive; ylafon@w3.org; David Fallside; Carine Bournez 
> >>(E-mail)
> >>
> >>Ah... I was planning on spending some time this afternoon 
> incoporating 
> >>issue resolutions. Did you also do any of that?
> >>
> >>Apart from this (and cleaning up the TOC! -but Yves is good 
> at doing 
> >>this!-), I don't see anything else that needs doing.
> >>
> >>Thanks for creating the snapshots,
> >>
> >>JJ.
> >>
> >>PS. I'll on IRC shortly to speed up communication.
> >>
> >>Martin Gudgin wrote:
> >>
> >>
> >>>As you may have seen from mail from me on the WG list, the spec 
> >>>documents have been updated for PR. I've made the agreed changes, 
> >>>removed diff markup and removed change logs. I've generated
> >>
> >>snap shots
> >>
> >>>at each stage of the process.
> >>>
> >>>I think all that needs doing now is the following:
> >>>
> >>>1.Update namespace URIs
> >>>2.Update status/boilerplate for PR
> >>>
> >>>Does anyone know of anything else that needs doing? 
> >>>
> >>>I'm happy to do #1 for all three parts + schemas docs, I
> >>
> >>just need to
> >>
> >>>know what URIs we're going to use.
> >>>
> >>>I'm hoping Yves/Carine can do #2
> >>>
> >>>Regards
> >>>
> >>>Gudge
> >>
> >>
> > 
> 
> 
> 



