docno="lists-100-13038065"
received="Thu Aug  9 07:22:40 2001"
isoreceived="20010809112240"
sent="Tue, 7 Aug 2001 14:07:40 +0200 "
isosent="20010807120740"
name="Dimitris Dimitriadis"
email="dimitris.dimitriadis@improve.se"
subject="SV: [General] Status?"
id="9F67DC27F4CCD311ABA600508B6A66A44A6B78@VXOIMP1"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To: Dimitris Dimitriadis<dimitris.dimitriadis@improve.se>,"'www-dom-ts@w3.org'"<www-dom-ts@w3.org>

I'm back from my vacation and would like to do a quick check on the items
list posted earlier and listed below.

I think we are ready to move quite fast toward publishing the DOM TS if we
allow for the following:

1. Some period to sanity check and edit existing transforms and build files.
2. A general discussion as to whether ANT will be used as the primary tool
for builds.
3. A general discussion as to whether people wanting to download the files
themselves should be able to do this to both build the DOM TS as well as
write their own harness around it.
4. Release of NIST tests, sanity check, editing, being done.
5. Production of documentation, being done.

I think all other issues that have been raised have been solved. Please
advise if this is not the case.

Kind regards,

/Dimitris

-------

I presume that most people, like myself, will have some weeks off this
month, so it seems to be a good idea to get a picture of the current status.

Below you'll find a list of action items with status indicators. Please
remind me if I have forgotten anything.

(W3C) CVS rights to DOM TS Group. Have all who should received information?

(Dimitris) I have the update on the process document [done, published at
http://www.w3.org/DOM/DOMTS-Process]

(Dimitris/All) also I'm looking over both the
schema and XSL to generate it to sanity check and document further. In
addition, I want to start putting material on the DOM TS page at W3C, so
please have one final go at Curt's and Mary's submitted material before I do
so. [Unfortunately my timeframe has been a bit limited due to finishing off
before the summer. I should be able to send some comments soon, however]
[dd] Let's set aside some time to do this now as Curt has long awaited
comments. I'll do this during today and tomorrow.

(Dimitris/Mary) From the DOM WG meeting, we have a wish for a simple harness
to generate
straightforward results of at least the ECMA tests. Mary, could we look at
your older solution? [Mary? Could I have your input on this?]
[dd] There has been comments that we should look into a solution built from
scratch. Has anyone looked at this?

(Mary) Given that we do indeed finalize this fairly soon, how long will it
take
us to translate the existing tests? Mary? [Being done, do we have a date on
this?]
[dd] It would be really good if we could have an indication of when the
tests will be ready for sanity checking in order to be released.

(Dimitris/Fred) We have Fred who's volounteered to write the documentation
together with
me. I look forward to start doing this once we've finalized the schema.
[Should we coordinate work on a tutorial, Fred?]
[dd] I'll publish the DOM TS FAQ and start work on the tutorial as well as
the architectural/technical equivalent to the Process Document (which will
be a W3C document)

(Dimitris/Curt) We need to look into the resolution/status options for the
submitted
tests, eg. by adding a pending option while a test is being investigated by
the DOM WG. Also we should decide on whether we submit through a mailig list
or SF. [Have we dropped the idea to use SourceForge for _issue tracking_? If
not, I should include this to the domconftest. It would also simplify
packaging, building only with stable tests]
[dd] I've added a 'status' option to the domconftest project with 'Valid
test', 'Investigated by DOM WG' and 'pending' as possible options.


(Philippe) to create a www-dom-ts-submissions@w3.org mailing list. [done]

(Curt/Mary/Dimitris) Rewrite styelsheets for code generation (Java and ECMA
primarily, others
welcome) (NIST for the Java one, ECMA open) [Java published, has anyone
started work on the ECMA one?]

(Curt, Dimitris?) Work on the details for test suite packaging  [do we have
more input that what has been on the list already?]
[dd] Done as far as I can see, I have nothing to add to the discussion from
the previous weeks, anyone else?

(Mary/Dimitris) Produce a test matrix [Pending on my comments on HTML]
[dd] I take it that you finalized it, Mary? Sorry for not taking part in
this.

(Mary) Produce a list of semantic requirements (Mary, is connected to the
test
matrix) [ready by now?]

Kind regards,

/Dimitris



