docno="lists-005-2879628"
received="Thu Mar 25 16:50:38 2004"
isoreceived="20040325215038"
sent="Thu, 25 Mar 2004 11:11:47 -0800 (PST)"
isosent="20040325191147"
name="Mr. Chuckie Taylor"
email="chuckietaylor_2004@familybusiness.biz"
subject="RE: RESPOND IMMEDIATELY FOR TIME ESSENCE"
id="20040325191147.99976.qmail@web109.biz.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="RESPOND IMMEDIATELY FOR TIME ESSENCE"
expires="-1"


To:chuckietaylor_2004@familybusiness.biz


Good day,

SOLICITING FOR A BUSINESS VENTURE AND PARTNERSHIP

Before I proceed, I must be grateful to introduce
myself. My name is Mr. Chuckie Taylor a Liberian. I am
the first son of President Charles Taylor, the
president of liberia . During the rebellion in my
country, I absconded under my father's instructions
with Twenty-Eight Million Five Hundred Thousand United
States Dollars (US$28.5M) which was part of the money
meant for campaigning for President Charls Taylor
re-election 
into office.

Presently I have been able to move the funds
diplomatically to a Financial Vault Company in Europe
where it is still kept in safe custody.

MY REQUEST

As a result of my present situation as a refugee who
cannot have access to own an account or accounts, I am
looking for a trustworthy individual/firm by my
father's instructions to advice us in making the
rightful investment as well as to provide account(s)
where the funds will be lodged into. More also, we are
at the interim interested in buying properties for
residence as my family will be residing there in
the near future.

COMMISSION/REMUNERATION

As regards your commission/remuneration, my family
have decided to offer you 15% of the total sum and
also set aside 5% for all your expenses (i.e telephone
bills, travelling expenses, hotel bills and other
miscellaneous expenses).


I strongly believe that associating with you to embark
on this and other business ventures will derive a huge
success hereafter and it will be a long lasting
business association via my email for further
briefing.


Endeavor to send your full contact details like your
full names, address, telephone and fax numbers. As
soon as I receive the above information, I will let
you have the contact details of the security company
in Europe  where funds are deposited to enable you
verify the existance of the security company and the
deposited funds before we proceed on this transaction.


I await your anticipated co-operation.

Yours truly,

Mr. Chuckie Taylor.



For better understanding, please view these websites
below:

http://www.cnn.com/2003/WORLD/africa/08/11/taylor.warcrimes/index.html
http://www.cnn.com/2003/WORLD/africa/08/11/liberia.1300/index.html

Note: I deliberately emailed you in this manner by not
attentioning you for confidentiality.



