docno="lists-028-13327920"
received="Wed Jan 29 23:37:07 2003"
isoreceived="20030130043707"
sent="Wed, 29 Jan 2003 20:36:16 -0800 (PST)"
isosent="20030130043616"
name="Alfred Zatopek"
email="zatopecous@yahoo.com"
subject="Terrible design"
id="20030130043616.55466.qmail@web21103.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:site-comments@w3.org


The site is a real... mess. I can't find CSS validator
for download and I just keep opening and opening
folders and I can't ever get to something reading
"CSSvalidator". I got to "Cssvalidator is here", I
clicked and a new series of files with complicated
names (parse...) and none called CSSvalidator. Is the
Webmaster drunk or kidding?. 

Too much text to read and a confusing CSV (what the
heck does CSV mean?) access to the archives. I have
seen terrible designs before but never something like
this site, specially if you consider that it is a
consortium. Sorry, but I think this. I wonder why the
webmaster didn't place a link to a "file" both called
"CSSvalidator"?. Thus the access should be direct and
simple and not a long ride of windows and windows with
folders and folders just to find nothing. If one has
to take a course to download a file from that site, it
is preferable not to validate any style sheet.
Terrible design.

Alfred

__________________________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Mail Plus - Powerful. Affordable. Sign up now.
http://mailplus.yahoo.com



