docno="lists-029-4398243"
received="Sun May  2 06:25:42 2004"
isoreceived="20040502102542"
sent="Sun, 2 May 2004 12:25:10 +0200 (CEST)"
isosent="20040502102510"
name="ezekiel martin gurevich"
email="ezequielmartingurevich3333@yahoo.se"
subject="[#487156] ibm argentina-ibm"
id="20040502102510.59589.qmail@web41904.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="#89.76ef4.3613b35b.4091115d.b636&#64;johnkerry2.trakken.com"
expires="-1"


To: John Kerry for President<info@johnkerry.com>
Cc:hyperspace_hyperboloid@yahoo.com.ar,media@PhoenixProject.info,economie-numerique@finances.gouv.fr,wwwmail.boeing2@boeing.com,webmaster@teragrid.org,enc-support@enc.k12.il.us,webmaster@anl.gov,webmaster@ncsa.uiuc.edu,oig@nsf.gov,webmaster@nsf.gov,info@nsf.gov,fastlane@nsf.gov,info@sdsc.edu,Center@darpa.mil,oig.hotline@nara.gov,webmaster@cacr.caltech.edu,webcnrs@cnrs-dir.fr,webmaster@cest.admin.ch,info@tacc.utexas.edu,www@tacc.utexas.edu,cern.reception@cern.ch,visits.service@cern.ch,w3t-pr@w3.org,finley@physics.purdue.edu,site-comments@w3.org,ews@us.ibm.com,mike.johnson@gsa.gov,ciscosystems_siemenssystems@yahoo.de,investor@unisys.com,year2000@y2k.senate.gov,bug2000virus@yahoo.de,jerusalemvirus@europe.com,jerusalemvirus@usa.com,jerusalemvirus@asia.com,jerusalemvirus@tokyo.com,jerusalemvirus@singapore.com,jerusalemvirus@rome.com,jerusalemvirus@paris.com,jerusalemvirus@munich.com,jerusalemvirus@madrid.com,jerusalemvirus@london.com,help@celebrityemail.com,haifavirus@africamail.com,haifavirus@arcticmail.com,info.belgium@fujitsu-siemens.com,at.infoaustria@fujitsu-siemens.com,competence-center.at@fujitsu-siemens.com,at.jobs@fujitsu-siemens.com,fsc@results.at,at.service@fujitsu-siemens.com,at.sales@fujitsu-siemens.com,at.webmaster@fujitsu-siemens.com,russia@fujitsu-siemens.com,fsc@ezotop.ru,haifavirus@samerica.com,info.luxemburg@fujitsu-siemens.com,info@bhinformatics.com,haifavirus@nycmail.com,info@taiwandc.org,destek@fujitsu-siemens.com,idic@mail.idic.gov.tw,teco-atlanta@roc-taiwan.org,infob@broadviewnet.net,teco-chicago@roc-taiwan.org,teco-houston@roc-taiwan.org,teco-la@roc-taiwan.org,roctaiwan@taipei.org,teco-sf@roc.taiwan.org,hyperspace_euclidean@yahoo.com.ar,cetra@cetra.org.tw,sales@integsystems.com,VPCommunications@imc7.ems.lmco.com,feedback@imc7.ems.lmco.com,HOLINFO@parliament.uk,hyperspace_spherical@yahoo.com.ar,S.W.Hawking@damtp.cam.ac.uk,kerberos@mit.edu,krb5-bugs@mit.edu,krbdev@mit.edu,krbcore@mit.edu,schoolvisit@emplive.com,hyperarchive@lcs.mit.edu,docs@mit.edu,experience@emplive.com,webmaster@economics.mit.edu,groupsales@emplive.com,kgriffin@mit.edu,pressinfo@emplive.com,kswan@mit.edu,jobs@emplive.com,gking@mit.edu,facilityuse@emplive.com,classics@classics.mit.edu,presse@dassault-aviation.fr,volunteers@emplive.com,webmaster@socata.eads.net,schwartz@turbogizmo.com,security-alert@CHECKPOINT.COM,webmaster@isayeret.com



John Kerry for President <info@johnkerry.com> wrote:John Kerry's "Jobs First Express-On the Road to a Stronger Economy" tour.
Kerry will enforce trade agreements to level the playing field for US
workers:
http://www.johnkerry.com/pressroom/releases/pr_2004_0426a.html 



Dear Friend,

John Kerry appreciates hearing your thoughts and concerns about the
campaign. We wanted to let you know that the campaign has received your
message. John Kerry receives thousands of emails every day - and the
thoughts that flow in from across the country help us run the kind of
grassroots campaign John Kerry believes in very deeply. 

Given the large volume of messages John Kerry receives, please understand
that we may not be able to send you a personalized reply at this time. We
thank you for your enthusiastic interest and support for John Kerry. 

Please know that we are still reading all of your messages and will
continue to communicate your thoughts and suggestions to Campaign
management. We always look forward to hearing from you and consider you
to be an important part of the Kerry Team. 

To read what other Kerry supporters are saying about the campaign, visit
the John Kerry web log anytime at: http://blog.johnkerry.com/ or our
Online Forum at: http://forum.johnkerry.com/
To get straight answers on the attacks and distortions about John Kerry's
record visit: http://blog.johnkerry.com/dbunker/

In the meantime, answers to many questions are also available on our
website - www.johnkerry.com. We're constantly updating the website so we
hope you'll check it often. There you can read the text of recent
speeches by John Kerry and find articles and position papers on a wide
range of issues.

The links below will allow you to register to receive campaign news. Here
are a few ways you can help:

1. Join the Kerry Travelers and carry John's message to Iowa and New
Hampshire! In these last crucial weeks before the first votes are cast,
Kerry supporters from all across the country are converging on Iowa and
New Hampshire to help win those states for John Kerry. To find out more
and to sign up, click on this link or enter it in your address window: 
http://www.johnkerry.com/kerrytravelers/

2. Join the Kerry2004 MeetUp and help us organize online. MeetUp is a
great way to find others in your area interested in supporting John Kerry
or learning more about him. You can find out more at
www.johnkerry.com/meetup. In the meantime you can build our supporter
lists by getting people to register on our website. Click on our online
activist toolkit to learn more: http://www.johnkerry.com/download/

4. Contribute. In this vital stage of our national campaign, your
financial help is critical. Please click here to give whatever you can: 
https://contribute.johnkerry.com/?team=70

In just the past few weeks literally thousands of people have signed up on
our website. Click here to find other great ways to help: 
http://www.johnkerry.com/signup/email.html

If you prefer, you can mail your contribution to:

John Kerry for President, Inc.
P.O. Box 77247
Washington, DC 20013

Again, thank you for supporting John Kerry. 

The Kerry Team

This email address has been registered at JohnKerry.com. If you do not
want to receive further messages about John Kerry, just reply to
unsubscribe@johnkerry.com with "Remove" in the subject line.

Paid for by John Kerry for President, Inc. Contributions or gifts to John
Kerry For President, Inc. are not deductible for income tax purposes.




H?strusk och gr? moln - k?p en resa till solen p? Yahoo! Resor



