docno="lists-027-10561333"
received="Tue Feb 18 12:37:56 2003"
isoreceived="20030218173756"
sent="Tue, 18 Feb 2003 10:39:42 -0700"
isosent="20030218173942"
name="Colleen Evans"
email="cevans@sonicsoftware.com"
subject="Re: Proposed telcon agenda, 2/18"
id="3E526FDE.E23B7D9E@sonicsoftware.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="339902DC0E58D411986A00B0D03D843201B24CDF&#64;extmail.rtp.tibco.com"
expires="-1"

To: Don Mullen<donmullen@tibco.com>
Cc:"Properties and Features Task Force (E-mail)"<public-ws-pnf-tf@w3.org>



Hi Don,
Should we get time on the WSA agenda for the same presentation?

Colleen


Don Mullen wrote:

> Regrets for this upcoming meeting :-( - I am skiing in Park City, Utah with
> my children :-).
>
> > 2. Discuss the document Jean-Jacques posted [1]  (50min)
>
> Looks like a good start.  I am somewhat concerned about how much we can have
> ready to present at the next F2F - two weeks out.  Perhaps a portion of
> tomorrow's meeting could be spent discussing what kind of deliverable we can
> have for that meeting.  I know Jonathan would like to see a resolution on
> features/properties by the end of the F2F, so it seems some kind of
> presentation to the group will be in order.  I think the focus should be on
> the presentation, which means drilling in on the specifics of a couple of
> the more compelling use-cases -- and resisting spending too much time on the
> details of the rest.
>
> As a WSD WG member, I would want to know:
>
> o what are the use cases (we've started this discussion)
>
> o why can't this be solved with the general extension mechanism in WSDL?
>
> o what else might this affect other than WSD?
>
> I would like to volunteer to put time into putting together a presentation
> for the F2F.
>
> > 3. Decide on date/time for next call (5min)
>
> The Tuesday 11am EST is designated as our time slot going forward --
> correct?
>
> Don



