docno="lists-070-1112827"
received="Sat Feb  2 02:27:34 2002"
isoreceived="20020202072734"
sent="Sat, 2 Feb 2002 18:27:26 +1100"
isosent="20020202072726"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
subject="RE: is the needed proxy available?  etc."
id="15451.38110.511932.159002@jpc.local"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="7164D4266FD7B94CA59D551C7FE6618D02E59F3F&#64;red-msg-08.redmond.corp.microsoft.com"
expires="-1"


To: Web Content Guidelines<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>

The W3C is active in this area, particularly through the
device-independence working group which has drafted principles that
are consistent with, but more elaborate than, those of our
requirements document in this respect. See
http://www.w3.org/TR/di-princ/

The general model is one in which a user agent requests a web page
designated by a device-independent URI, and there is an adaptation
process which ensures that the delivered content is appropriate to the
environment in which it is to be presented, including the user's needs
and preferences. This environment is termed the "delivery context" and
includes the access mechanism (i.e. the user agent), user preferences,
network band width and other relevant factors.

Also germane to our discussions is the distinction which the
device-independence principles draw between a "functional
presentation" and a "customized presentation". The former is
sufficient to enable the user to carry out the task or achieve the
purpose for which the site was developed, as envisaged by the author.
The latter is a presentation which satisfies the author's quality
criteria with respect to a given delivery context.

Full details of these concepts are provided in the document itself,
which I would recommend reading.



