docno="lists-044-12188505"
received="Tue Jul 18 07:38:26 2000"
isoreceived="20000718113826"
sent="Tue, 18 Jul 2000 12:38:03 +0100"
isosent="20000718113803"
name="Owen Roberts"
email="oroberts@baltimore.com"
subject="RE: XMLDSIG Interop in connection with 48th IETF"
id="3B46C515DDE2D311A70C005004AFCB70221459@emeairl2.cdsemea.baltimore.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="XMLDSIG Interop in connection with 48th IETF"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-ietf-xmldsig@w3.org

Hi all,

At Baltimore we have some pre-release product we could bring to Interop if
there are plenty of other implementations going.

Can we get a hands-up of who will be attending with implementations?

Also, will there be a standard DTD to perform interop against? Schemas
aren't widely implemented in DOM world. 
We are just using the DTD out of the latest draft. (broken as it is compared
to the schema) Is anyone doing validation against schems??
http://www.w3.org/TR/xmldsig-core/xmldsig-core-schema.dtd

We are supporting 
explictly namespace qualified elements in XML with no validation (although
still based on DTD)
or 
no namespace qualifications in XML with validation against said DTD.


Thanks,
Owen Roberts
Baltimore Tech.



> -----Original Message-----
> From: Donald E. Eastlake 3rd [mailto:dee3@torque.pothole.com]
> Sent: Monday, July 17, 2000 8:14 PM
> To: w3c-ietf-xmldsig@w3.org
> Cc: lde008@dma.isg.mot.com
> Subject: XMLDSIG Interop in connection with 48th IETF
> 
> 
> 
> I'd like to suggest some mechanics.  The WG meeting is Thursday
> afternoon.  About the only time at the IETF meeting before that which
> does not conflict with sessions is Tuesday evening opposite 
> the Social.
> 
> I'll post a list of test cases which can be refined based on comment.
> Those participating can generate documents including signatures for
> these cases and exchange them (or send them to me for distribution to
> participants) via email or sneaker net no later than the Sunday
> evening reception.
> 
> People are welcome to exchange information before then but Tuesday
> evening the participants get together to compare notes on verification
> efforts thus far, perhaps do a small bit of real time adjustment to
> implementations, and plan whether any further attempt to get together
> should be made before the Thursday afternoon WG meeting.
> 
> Thanks,
> Donald
> =====================================================================
>  Donald E. Eastlake 3rd                      dee3@torque.pothole.com
>  140 Forest Avenue                                +1 978-562-2827(h)
>  Hudson, MA 01749 USA                             +1 508-261-5434(w)
> 



