docno="lists-024-7663424"
received="Fri Dec 12 01:46:23 2003"
isoreceived="20031212064623"
sent="Fri, 12 Dec 2003 11:39:42 +0800"
isosent="20031212033942"
name="Zhu Bin"
email="zhubin@cai.pku.edu.cn"
subject="????: ontology, database, OOP, Semantic Web"
id="T7BS08PBVFIS0B0062@metc-dell-407.cai.pku.edu.cn"
charset="gb2312"
inreplyto="007701c3c005$fc25c8d0$7ddece84&#64;Info125"
expires="-1"

To: 'Yongchun Gao'<yongchun.gao@mail.mcgill.ca>
Cc:www-rdf-logic@w3.org,www-rdf-insterest@w3.org,public-webont-comments@w3.org


I think you should read more material or paper then come here and ask
questions.

Google is a good website.

 

 

Hi, Dear Folks,

 

I did not see much material that talks about the relation among ontology,
database, and OOP (object oriented programming). But I want to say some idea
that I am thinking recently to share with you all, and of course any comment
is welcome.

 

Nowadays, most of the information systems need an database as the backend.
We consider an object and its properties, which help us to design database
structure. I think the same progress in help us in designing ontology, and
one of its expression langrage "OWL", right?

 

Can OWL help database designing? Can OWL help web access to database? Can
OWL help dataset transfer on web? Can OWL file as translator of two
databases? Some relations can not expressed in OWL. (suppose in one database
a field is defined as integer range from 1 to 5 as code for category of
brisk, but in another database a field is defined as string 1,...,5 as code
for category of brisk. I think to communicate between these two databases,
we can deal with this logic in program.)

 

How can OWL integrated with website, with programming?

 

The Semantic Web is based on the current web. Does this mean that Semantic
Web will run on HTTP too? Just return more information about the ontology
that this website is using in addition to the request result? Or we have not
reach here yet? And for search in the future Semantic Web, I think the only
logic in OWL is not enough, and much more rule, or logic, have to be
designed in the search engine.

 

Thanks in advance.

 

Yongchun



