docno="lists-013-10476955"
received="Thu Nov 15 19:26:52 2001"
isoreceived="20011116002652"
sent="Thu, 15 Nov 2001 16:26:50 0800 (PST)"
isosent="20011116002650"
name="michael adams"
email="michaeldams@yahoo.com"
subject="Business Call"
id="20011116002650.93302.qmail@web20101.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"


To:webdav-dasl@w3.org

Attention:C E O 
 I know that this letter may or may not come as
surprise to you, but it is based on the prevailing
Information I gathered about you  from the Internet 
here in Gambia For this reason, I have belief that you
would be able  to execute a business presently at hand
for our mutual benefit with the  hope that you will
not impede the trust and confidence. I am willing
 to repose in you. 
   
 I work with a Gambia based public and international
Veterinary firm   'Vineyard  & Associates '. I work as
the corporate affairs manager. I  attended a business
seminar held at Kumasi, Ghana in May  2001. At this 
seminar, I was introduced to one Dr. Wisdom Mensah,
the president of  MAR DOWELS ETS. Dr. Mensah is an
accomplished and widely known farmer  in this part of
the region, He is a respected personality, who
specializes  in cattle and goat farms, including
various agricultural products for  export. He has
farms in different countries of West Africa. But above
 all he is one of the greatest suppliers of cattle,
and dairy products in this side coast. 
    
 Realizing my profession, Dr. Mensah, took me into
confidence to inform  me of the enormous amount of
money he spends in purchasing of a particular,  but
very important medicine for his livestock. He
intimated me that he buys quantities of 200-250
cartons of this product at a time for $5000.00  per
carton. He was curious to know if my organization
could source a  cheaper supplier of the same product
for him given the trends of fall  in the price of beef
in most markets.
   
  Anxiously at the office, I discussed this with my
company's director,  who decided it would be best if
we handle the supply ourselves. We carried  out
research and discovered that we could obtain the same
product at an exact cheaper price of production in  
OVERSEA    at $2,000.00 per carton. We immediately
made a proposal to MAR DOWELS to make supply to him at
$4,800 per carton for which he accepted. For my
involvement in the entire arrangement, my director
offered to give me a 30% of whatever profit realized
on each supply I readily accepted. 
    
 On the 12th June  2001, the first supply of 120
cartons were made to MAR DOWELS. My director at this
juncture practically forgot our understanding. When I
questioned, I was given a mere token of appreciation.
Any further
 protest from me was threatened with a dismissal from
office. I quickly tried to repair the damage and
maintain my civility but his relationship with me has
ceased to be cordial. I was under the impression that
business
 between him and Dr. Mensah has also ended in a bitter
note as he led me to believe.

 Only recently, I intercepted some mails from MAR
DOWELS to my director. I was shocked to find out that
two additional supplies have been made to them and
which I was not informed. This time Dr. Mensah is
requesting
 for a supply of 500 cartons of the same product
because of a suspected  out break among his livestock
in Niger Republic. He has requested that  these
supplies be made before the 21/01/ 2002. He is also
requesting
 for another supply meant for storing of 1,500 cartons
against the unpredictable  new millennium. However the
500 cartons are more urgently needed at the moment.
These letters will never reach my director's desk. 
Instead I contacted Dr. Mensah and convinced him that
I can arrange for an International supplier who can
supply the same product at $4, 200 per carton. At This
particular moment, Dr. Mensah, is awaiting further
directive from my foreign contact and me as he has
suspended all dealings with my director. I can not
handle this transaction alone because I am still
working fo my boss.  If you can handle this project,
please contact me on my e-mail: Michaeldams@yahoo.com 
for more details on how to go about it. I contacted
you because I need a foreign partner who can honestly
go into business with me. You just claim to be the
supplier and I will introduce you to the company from
where the supplies will be made. All I care for is the
30% profit after the transaction. This business could
last long if well  negotiated. I expect your urgent
reply, thank you.  

Best Regards 
Michael Adams


__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Find the one for you at Yahoo! Personals
http://personals.yahoo.com



