docno="lists-004-9825315"
received="Tue Dec 23 20:42:15 2003"
isoreceived="20031224014215"
sent="Tue, 23 Dec 2003 17:42:38 -0800"
isosent="20031224014238"
name="thomas Burd"
email="schooloverseer@yahoo.com"
subject="[ietf-charsets] &lt;none&gt;"
id="20031224014158.E71CA1386D@dr-nick.w3.org"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:<ietf-charsets@w3.org>


<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN">
<HTML><HEAD>
<META http-equiv=Content-Type content="text/html; charset=unicode">
<META content="MSHTML 6.00.2800.1276" name=GENERATOR></HEAD>
<BODY>Turn $25 into $500,000 in 6 months!!! Read this and READ IT AGAIN!!It
is 
possible ordinary people_who know little about internet marketing. And 
the_earnings potential is truly staggering!__I'll make you a promise. READ
THIS 
E-MAIL TO THE END! -_follow what it says to the letter - and you will
not_worry 
whether a RECESSION is coming or not, who is_President, or whether you keep
your 
current job or not._Yes, I know what you are thinking. I never responded_to
one 
of these before either. One day though,_something just said: "You throw
away 
$25.00 going to_a movie for 2 hours with your wife. What the heck."_Believe
me, 
no matter where you believe those "feelings"_come from, I thank every day
that I 
had that feeling. __I cannot imagine where I would be or what I would
be_doing 
had I not. Read on. It's true. Every word of it._It is legal. I checked.
Simply 
because you are buying_and selling something of value.__AS SEEN ON NATIONAL 
TV:__Making over half a million dollars every 4 to 5_months from your 
home.__THANKS TO THE COMPUTER AGE AND THE INTERNET! 
==================================================_BE AN INTERNET
MILLIONAIRE 
LIKE OTHERS WITHIN A YEAR!!!__Before you say "Bull", please read the 
following._This is the letter you have been hearing about on the_news
lately. 
Due to the popularity of this letter on_the internet, a national weekly
news 
program recently_devoted an entire show to the investigation of
this_program 
described below, to see if it really can make_people money. The show also 
investigated whether or_not the program was legal.__Their findings proved
once 
and for all that there are "absolutely NO laws prohibiting the
participation in 
the program and if people can 'follow the simple instructions' they are
bound to 
make some mega bucks with only $25 out of pocket cost".__DUE TO THE RECENT 
INCREASE OF POPULARITY &amp; RESPECT_THIS PROGRAM HAS ATTAINED, IT IS
CURRENTLY 
WORKING_BETTER THAN EVER.__This is what one had to say: "Thanks to 
this_profitable opportunity. I was approached many times_before but each
time I 
passed on it. I am so glad_I finally joined just to see what one could
expect_in 
return for the minimal effort and money required._To my astonishment, I
received 
a total $610,470.00_in 21 weeks, with money still coming in."__Pam Hedland,
Fort 
Lee, New Jersey. ==================================================_Another 
said: "This program has been around for a_long time but I never believed in
it. 
But one day_when I received this again in the mail I decided_to gamble my
$25 on 
it. I followed the simple_instructions and walaa ..... 3 weeks later
the_money 
started to come in. First month I only made_$240.00 but the next 2 months
after 
that I made_a total of $290,000.00. So far, in the past 8 months_by
re-entering 
the program, I have made over_$710,000.00 and I am playing it again. The
key 
to_success in this program is to follow the simple_steps and NOT change 
anything."__More testimonials later but first, =======__==== PRINT THIS NOW
FOR 
YOUR FUTURE REFERENCE ==== 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$__If you would like
to 
make at least $500,000 every_4 to 5 months easily and comfortably, please
read 
the following...THEN READ IT AGAIN and 
AGAIN!!!__$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$__FOLLOW
THE 
SIMPLE INSTRUCTION BELOW AND _YOUR FINANCIAL DREAMS WILL COME TRUE, 
GUARANTEED!__INSTRUCTIONS:__=====Order all 5 reports shown on the list
below 
=====__For each report, send $5 CASH, THE NAME &amp; NUMBER OF THE_REPORT
YOU 
ARE ORDERING and YOUR E-MAIL ADDRESS to the_person whose name appears ON
THAT 
LIST next to the report._MAKE SURE YOUR RETURN ADDRESS IS ON&nbsp; YOUR
ENVELOPE 
TOP_LEFT CORNER in case of any mail problems.__===WHEN YOU PLACE YOUR
ORDER, 
MAKE SURE ===_===YOU ORDER EACH OF THE 5 REPORTS! ===_You will need all 5 
reports so that you can save_them on your computer and resell them._YOUR
TOTAL 
COST $5 X 5 = $25.00.__Within a few days you will receive, via e-mail,
each_of 
the 5 reports from these 5 different individuals._Save them on your
computer so 
they will be accessible_for you to send to the 1,000's of people who
will_order 
them from you. Also make a floppy of these_reports and keep it on your desk
in 
case something_happens to your computer.__IMPORTANT - DO NOT alter the
names of 
the people who_are listed next to each report, or their sequence on_the
list, in 
any way other than what is instructed_below in steps 1 through 6 or you
will 
lose out_on the majority of your profits. Once you_understand the way this 
works, you will also_see how it will not work if you change it. __Remember,
this 
method has been tested, and if you_alter it, it will NOT work!!! People
have 
tried_to put their friends'/relatives' names on all five_thinking they
could get 
all the money. But it does_not work this way. Believe us, some have tried
to_be 
greedy and then nothing happened. So Do Not_try to change anything other
than 
what is instructed._Because if you do, it will not work for you._Remember, 
honesty reaps the reward!!! __This IS a legitimate BUSINESS. You are
offering 
a_product for sale and getting paid for it. Treat it_as such and you will
be 
VERY profitable in a short_period of time.__1.. After you have ordered all
5 
reports, take this advertisement and REMOVE the name &amp; address of the
person 
in REPORT # 5. This person has made it through the cycle and is no doubt 
counting their fortune.__2.. Move the name &amp; address in REPORT # 4 down
TO 
REPORT # 5.__3.. Move the name &amp; address in REPORT # 3 down TO REPORT # 
4.__4.. Move the name &amp; address in REPORT # 2 down TO REPORT # 3.__5..
Move 
the name &amp; address in REPORT # 1 down TO REPORT # 2__6.... Insert YOUR
name 
&amp; address in the REPORT # 1 Position.__PLEASE MAKE SURE you copy every
name 
&amp; address_ACCURATELY! This is critical to YOUR 
success.__==================================================_**** Take this 
entire letter, with the modified_list of names, and save it on your
computer._DO 
NOT MAKE ANY OTHER CHANGES.__Save this on a disk as well just in case you 
lose_any data. To assist you with marketing your business_on the internet,
the 5 
reports you purchase will_provide you with invaluable marketing 
information_which includes how to send bulk e-mails legally,_where to find 
thousands of free classified ads and_much more. There are 2 primary methods
to 
get this_venture going:__METHOD # 1: BY SENDING BULK E-MAIL LEGALLY 
==================================================__Let's say that you
decide to 
start small, just to see_how it goes, and we will assume you and those 
involved_send out only 5,000 e-mails each. Let's also assume_that the
mailing 
receives only a 0.2% (2/10 of 1%)_response (the response could be much
better 
but let's_just say it is only 0.2%). Also many people will send_out
hundreds of 
thousands of e-mails instead of only_5,000 each.__Continuing with this
example, 
you send out only_5,000 e-mails. With a 0.2% response, that is only_10
orders 
for report # 1. Those 10 people responded_by sending out 5,000 e-mails each
for 
a total of_50,000. Out of those 50,000 e-mails only 0.2%_responded with
orders. 
That's 100 people who_responded and ordered Report # 2.__Those 100 people
mail 
out 5,000 e-mails each for_a total of 500,000 e-mails. The 0.2% response
to_that 
is 1000 orders for Report # 3.__Those 1000 people send 5,000 e-mails each
for 
a_total of 5 million e-mails sent out. The 0.2%_response is 10,000 orders
for 
Report # 4.__Those 10,000 people send out 5,000 e-mails each_for a total of 
50,000,000 (50 million) e-mails._The 0.2% response to that is 100,000
orders 
for_Report # 5.__THAT'S 100,000 ORDERS TIMES $5 EACH = $500,000.00_(half a 
million dollars).__Your total income in this example is: 1..... $50_+
2..... 
$500 + 3.....$5,000 + 4..... $50,000_+ 5.... $500,000 .... Grand 
Total=$555,550.00__NUMBERS DO NOT LIE. GET A PENCIL &amp; PAPER AND_FIGURE
OUT 
THE WORST POSSIBLE RESPONSES AND NO_MATTER HOW YOU CALCULATE IT, YOU WILL 
STILL_MAKE A LOT OF MONEY! 
==================================================__REMEMBER FRIEND, THIS
IS 
ASSUMING ONLY 10 PEOPLE_ORDERING OUT OF 5,000 YOU MAILED TO. Dare to
think_for a 
moment what would happen if everyone or half_or even one 4th of those
people 
mailed 100,000_e-mails each or more?__There are over 150 million people on
the 
internet_worldwide and counting, with thousands more coming_online every
day. 
Believe me, many people will do_just that, and more!__METHOD # 2: BY
PLACING 
FREE ADS ON THE INTERNET 
==================================================__Advertising on the net
is 
very, very inexpensive and_there are hundreds of FREE places to 
advertise._Placing a lot of free ads on the internet will_easily get a
larger 
response. We strongly suggest_you start with Method # 1 and add METHOD # 2
as 
you_go along. For every $5 you receive, all you must_do is e-mail them the 
report they ordered. That's it._Always provide same day service on all 
orders.__This will guarantee that the e-mail they send out,_with your name
and 
address on it, will be prompt_because they cannot advertise until they 
receive_the report.__===========AVAILABLE REPORTS ====================_The 
reason for the "cash" is not because this is_illegal or somehow "wrong". It
is 
simply about time._Time for checks or credit cards to be cleared
or_approved, 
etc. Concealing it is simply so no one_can SEE there is money in the
envelope 
and steal_it before it gets to you.__ORDER EACH REPORT BY ITS NUMBER &amp;
NAME 
ONLY._Notes: Always send $5 cash (U.S. CURRENCY) for_each report. Checks
NOT 
accepted. Make sure the_cash is concealed by wrapping it in at least_2
sheets of 
paper. On one of those sheets of_paper, write the NUMBER &amp; the NAME of
the 
report_you are ordering, YOUR E-MAIL ADDRESS and your_name and postal 
address.__PLACE YOUR ORDER FOR THESE REPORTS NOW : 
==================================================__REPORT # 1: "The
Insider's 
Guide To Advertising for Free On The Net"_Order Report #1 from: Thomasaguy 
#103-1311 Lawson Avenue Kelowna, BC, Canada, V1Y 6V2__ 
________________________________________________________REPORT # 2: "The 
Insider's Guide To Sending Bulk Email On The Net"_Order Report #2
from:_C.M._AV. 
Gilberta Paiva, 12 - 1D_4520-169 S.M. Feira_PORTUGAL__ 
________________________________________________________REPORT # 3: "Secret
To 
Multilevel Marketing On The Net"_Order Report # 3 from: _M.G.T._PO Box 
125_Penarth_CF64 5ZY_United Kingdom__ 
________________________________________________________REPORT # 4: "How To 
Become A Millionaire Using MLM &amp; The Net"_Order Report # 4 from: _Y. N. 
B._Boite Postale n?7_Etterbeek 1_1040 Etterbeek_BELGIUM__ 
________________________________________________________REPORT # 5: "How To
Send 
Out One Million Emails For Free"_Order Report # 5 from: __ C.Y._P.O. Box 
42153_Canada Post Centre Plaza_128 Queen St. S_Mississauga, 
Ontario_L5M4Z0_Canada_______________________________________________________
____$$$$$$$$$ 
YOUR SUCCESS GUIDELINES $$$$$$$$$$$__Follow these guidelines to guarantee
your 
success:__=== If you do not receive at least 10 orders for_Report #1 within
2 
weeks, continue sending e-mails_until you do.__=== After you have received
10 
orders, 2 to 3 weeks_after that you should receive 100 orders or more
for_REPORT 
# 2. If you do not, continue advertising or_sending e-mails until you
do.__** 
Once you have received 100 or more orders for_Report # 2, YOU CAN RELAX,
because 
the system is_already working for you, and the cash will continue_to roll
in ! 
THIS IS IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER: Every time_your name is moved down on the
list, 
you are placed_in front of a different report.__You can KEEP TRACK of your 
PROGRESS by watching which_report people are ordering from you. IF YOU WANT 
TO_GENERATE MORE INCOME SEND ANOTHER BATCH OF E-MAILS_AND START THE WHOLE 
PROCESS AGAIN. There is NO LIMIT_to the income you can generate from this 
business !!! =================================================_FOLLOWING IS
A 
NOTE FROM THE ORIGINATOR OF THIS PROGRAM: _You have just received
information 
that can give you_financial freedom for the rest of your life, with_NO RISK
and 
JUST A LITTLE BIT OF EFFORT. You can_make more money in the next few weeks
and 
months_than you have ever imagined. Follow the program_EXACTLY AS
INSTRUCTED. Do 
Not change it in any way._It works exceedingly well as it is now.__Remember
to 
e-mail a copy of this exciting report_after you have put your name and
address 
in_Report #1 and moved others to #2 .....# 5 as_instructed above. One of
the 
people you send this_to may send out 100,000 or more e-mails and your_name
will 
be on every one of them. __Remember though, the more you send out the 
more_potential customers you will reach. So my friend,_I have given you the 
ideas, information, materials_and opportunity to become financially 
independent.__IT IS UP TO YOU NOW !__=============MORE 
TESTIMONIALS===============_"My name is Mitchell. My wife, Jody and I live 
in_Chicago. I am an accountant with a major U.S._Corporation and I make
pretty 
good money. When I_received this program I grumbled to Jody about_receiving 
'junk mail'. I made fun of the whole_thing, spouting my knowledge of the 
population_and percentages involved. I 'knew' it wouldn't work._Jody
totally 
ignored my supposed intelligence and_few days later she jumped in with both 
feet. I made_merciless fun of her, and was ready to lay the old_'I told you
so' 
on her when the thing didn't work. __Well, the laugh was on me! Within 3
weeks 
she had_received 50 responses. Within the next 45 days she_had received
total $ 
147,200.00 ......... all cash!_I was shocked. I have joined Jody in her 
'hobby'."__Mitchell Wolf M.D., Chicago, Illinois 
================================================_"Not being the gambling
type, 
it took me several_weeks to make up my mind to participate in this
plan._But 
conservative as I am, I decided that the initial_investment was so little
that 
there was just no way_that I wouldn't get enough orders to at least get_my
money 
back. I was surprised when I found my_medium size post office box crammed
with 
orders._I made $319,210.00 in the first 12 weeks. __The nice thing about
this 
deal is that it does not_matter where people live. There simply isn't
a_better 
investment with a faster return and so big."__Dan Sondstrom, Alberta,
Canada 
=================================================_"I had received this
program 
before. I deleted it,_but later I wondered if I should have given it a
try._Of 
course, I had no idea who to contact to get_another copy, so I had to wait
until 
I was e-mailed_again by someone else......... 11 months passed then_it
luckily 
came again...... I did not delete this one!_I made more than $490,000 on my 
first try and all the_money came within 22 weeks."__Susan De Suza, New
York, 
N.Y. =================================================_"It really is a
great 
opportunity to make relatively_easy money with little cost to you. I
followed 
the_simple instructions carefully and within 10 days the_money started to
come 
in. My first month I made $20,_in the 2nd month I made $560.00 and by the
end of 
the_third month my total cash count was $362,840.00._Life is beautiful,
Thanx to 
internet."__Fred Dellaca, Westport, New Zealand 
=================================================__ORDER YOUR REPORTS TODAY
AND 
GET STARTED ON YOUR_ROAD TO FINANCIAL FREEDOM 
!__=================================================_If you have any
questions 
of the legality of this_program, contact the Office of Associate
Director_for 
Marketing Practices, Federal Trade Commission,_Bureau of Consumer
Protection, 
Washington, D.C.__This message is sent in compliance of the proposed_bill 
SECTION 301, paragraph (a)(2)(C) of S. 1618. __* This message is not
intended 
for residents in the_State of Washington, Virginia or California,_screening
of 
addresses has been done to the best_of our technical ability.__&nbsp;_You
have 
received this email because you have registered_to receive special offers
and 
promotions through one of our_affiliate networks. To be removed from future 
mailings_please send blank email to _ HYPERLINK "mailto:jpley@iol.pt" 
_jpley@iol.pt_. __&nbsp;_DLPJNPXPXKBTGENCMSHYXRGINUMQQIPTNMFROS
</BODY></HTML>



