docno="lists-000-1412980"
received="Wed Jun 30 10:05:58 1999"
isoreceived="19990630140558"
sent="Wed, 30 Jun 1999 09:01:19 -0500"
isosent="19990630140119"
name="Bill Sowers"
email="sowersb@baxter.com"
subject="Request for Tidy to ignore 'user defined' tags"
id="377A232F.7E16812F@baxter.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:html-tidy@w3.org

Dave,

I discovered HTML-Kit at build 242 and would really like to use the Tidy

tool more extensively but I need the ability to somehow tell Tidy to
ignore certain character strings.

In my world, I use an IDE called Tango (www.pervasive.com) to develop
applications that connect databases to users via html pages and forms.
Tango is a drag-and-drop development tool that generates the html code.
For example, Tango has a tag <@include> that allows me to insert text
files into the
Tango file so at run time the Tango server sees the included file as
part of the Tango file.

I like to use Tidy to clean up and verfiy the html generated by Tango.
Unfortunately, when I run the Tango generated code through build 242 I
get a warning and nothing appears in the output section.  I have to
remove the <@include> tags to get output.

In build 248 no warning is generated (good) but it converts the '<' and
'>' marks to '&lt;' and '&gt;' respectively.  This is not what I need.

Similarly, we use a product called NetCloak (www.maxum.com).  This
product acts in a manner similar to server-side includes.  You put into
your html code the NetCloak command and, at the time of serving up,
NetCloak makes the appropriate subsitution.  For example, <insert_time>
will insert a time (depending upon the parameters you choose).  The
point is, in my environment, these character strings do something
useful, but they are not 'valid' html.

To me these are useful and valid codes.  I want the ability to add
certain character strings to Tidy and have it ignore that character
string when it finds it in a file it is examining.  It should do nothing

to it.  No changes.  Just leave it alone.

Perhaps I have missed a setting, if so, please tell me.  Otherwise,
please consider adding this capability to a near-time build (of course I

want it yesterday :^) ).

Thanks,

Bill Sowers
sowersb@baxter.com



