docno="lists-002-9228868"
received="Mon Apr 21 05:10:57 2003"
isoreceived="20030421091057"
sent="Thu, 17 Apr 2003 17:41:01 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20030418004101"
name="ibe johnson"
email="ibjohnson@justice.com"
subject="Partnership Negociation"
id="20030417174104.7856.h013.c014.wm@mail.justice.com.criticalpath.net"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:nick@webthing.com



From:Chief Ibe Johnson
Director of Finance and Accounts Department Independent
National Electoral Commission Abuja (INEC).
Tel: 234-1-7767347

Attention: The Managing Director
 
Subject: Partnership Negotiations
 
Before reading this letter, I will like you to visit
the below web sites for verification of the letter and
my personality.

A) http://allafrica.com/stories/200212280151.html
B) http://allafrica.com/stories/200301020424.html 

I am the newly appointed Finance and Accounts Director
of INEC, meaning, Independent National Electoral
Commission. This organization, INEC is the sole body
that conducts Elections in my country Nigeria. During
the last quarter of last year, 2002.  About N8billion
Naira (Approx. US$86.5 Million Dollars) was allocated
to our office by the Chairman of my agency for funding
of the voter registration exercise. On disbursing of
the US86.5 million for the voter registration exercise,
about US$69 million was utilized in completing the
voters registration exercise while US$17.5 million was
left as balance out of the US$86.5 million given to my
department.
The office of the Auditor General of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria has audited my agency, INEC this
January 2003 in respect of the Primary elections that
will be taking place next month while the Governorship
and Presidential election will take place at the end of
the first quarter of this year. During this auditing,
it was left for my office to give account of all
expenses and how funds were utilized during the
registration exercise, and while doing this
accountability with the auditor General Of the Federation, I
and my two other partners secretly removed the sum of
US$13.5 million from the INEC Treasury account and
included it as part of money used during the
registration exercise. Our intention is to transfer the
funds out of the country to any reliable foreign
account specifically meant for investment purposes. 
 
As the Finance and Accounts Director of INEC, I have
already declared to the Authorities and the Auditor
General of the Federation here that out of the US$86.5
million given to us, US$4 million is the balance left
and the US$13.5M we about transferring to your account
was added to the expenses incurred during the exercise,
the US$13.5M have been pushed to the Forex Account of
bank of Nigeria awaiting the vital documents to be
processed, hence to obtain valid and legal
authorization prior to telegraphic wire transfer taking
place to your designated bank account.
 
Be informed that our main reason for contacting you in
this confidential transaction is that we top civil
servants working under government establishment are not
allowed to operate foreign account as it is against the
new Government Anti Corruption Code of
-Conduct Bureau, and on discovery that we have access
to foreign account, we shall be dismissed from service
immediately and based on this difficult situation, we
have no other option than to look for a reliable
foreign partner to assist us in taking out this fund.
All we need from you is nothing but to allow us use
your bank account and transfer this money immediately
before we commence the  primary elections in my country
this year.

This transfer will be finalized precisely in 10 banking
days and we are going to give you 15% of the total sum
for your support, assistance and cooperation in seeing
that this funds gets to your bank account. On the other
hand, you are being guaranteed that there is no atom of
risk involved on your participation hence the
transaction will be handled with utmost confidentiality
in other to avoid any leakage. On acceptance of this
letter, which I believe you will give me a positive
answer, I will appreciate you

contact me once you receive this mail via my email
account or fax number indicating your capability and
willingness to enable me to give you more details of my
modus operandi of getting this money to you hitch
free.This matter requires your urgent attention and
confidentiality whatever your decision may be Cont 
 
Awaiting your urgent response
Yours faithfully.
Chief Ibe Johnson

_________________________________________________
FindLaw - Free Case Law, Jobs, Library, Community
http://www.FindLaw.com
Get your FREE @JUSTICE.COM email!
http://mail.Justice.com



