docno="lists-022-12792658"
received="Mon Apr 19 18:16:27 2004"
isoreceived="20040419221627"
sent="Mon, 19 Apr 2004 18:13:14 -0400"
isosent="20040419221314"
name="Ian B. Jacobs"
email="ij@w3.org"
subject="[Minutes] 19 Apr 2004 TAG teleconf (Administrativa)"
id="1082412793.1643.89.camel@seabright"
expires="-1"

To:www-tag@w3.org


Hello,

The minutes of the 19 April 2004 TAG teleconference
are available as HTML [1] and as text below. The
meeting was short and did not cover any technical
issues.

 _ Ian

[1] http://www.w3.org/2004/04/19-tag-summary.html
===================================================

                  Minutes of 19 April 2004 TAG teleconference

1. Administrative (30min)

    1. Roll call: NW (Chair), SW, MJ, CL, RF, IJ. Regrets: DC, PC.
       Missing: TBL
    2. The TAG postponed discussion of whether to accept the minutes of
       the [8]29 Mar teleconference
       Completed action IJ 2004/03/29: Remove a side comment per SW's
       suggestion in 22 March minutes.
    3. The TAG limited this [9]agenda to administrative issues since
       several people were missing from the call.
    4. Next meeting: 26 April. SW to Chair.

      [8] http://www.w3.org/2004/03/29-tag-summary.html
      [9] http://www.w3.org/2004/04/19-tag.html

  1.1 May TAG ftf meeting in Boston

    1. See [10]meeting page
    2. Completed action IJ 2004/03/29: Look for more advice from W3C Team
       on suggested hotels ([11]Done)
    3. NW will Chair the meeting.

     [10] http://www.w3.org/2004/05/12-tag-mtg.html
     [11] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2004Mar/0090.html

   [Ian]

          NW: I expect to work 2 days on last call and 1 day on other
          stuff (approximately) so that we are not only doing LC issues.

   Action NW and IJ: Work on agenda for ftf meeting.

  1.2 May AC meeting in New York

    1. [12]Registration[13], Agenda
       The following people do not expect to attend the AC meeting: NW,
       SW, RF, MJ, CL
    2. [14]Draft TAG report to AC, from SW.

     [12] http://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/34257/NY04/
     [13] http://www.w3.org/2004/05/16-AC-agenda.html
     [14] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/2004/04/13-Draft-AC-Report

   [Ian]

          NW, SW: Please add a ballpark figure about percentage that are
          non-editorial.
          Action IJ: Confirm list of issues closed since Nov 2003 AC
          meeting, add ballpark figure regarding percentage of
          "substantive" LC comments.

   Resolved: Send this report to the COO as amended.

  1.3 RF Action item regarding RFC2396bis

     * Action RF 2003/10/08: Explain "identifies" in RFC 2396.

   [Roy]
          I finished [15]draft 05 of the URI spec. It completes my action
          item on "identifies". Some people may not agree with the
          definition.

     [15] http://gbiv.com/protocols/uri/rev-2002/rfc2396bis.html#overview

          [The TAG reviews the definition].

   Resolved: This action is closed.

     _________________________________________________________________

   The TAG did not discuss issues below this line.

  1.2 May AC meeting in New York

    1. Presentation (17 May, 16:30, for 45 minutes including discussion)
         1. Topics?
              1. Flavor of LC comments? Biggest issues?
         2. Presenters?

  1.3 Revised TAG Charter (10-15 minutes MAXIMUM)

     * Action PC/IJ: Proposed revised [16]TAG charter ([17]Proposed)
     * [18]Patent policy analysis from IJ
     * Get AC Rep input?

     [16] http://www.w3.org/2001/07/19-tag
     [17] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2004Apr/0012.html
     [18] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2004Apr/0045.html

2. Technical (60min)

   See also [19]open actions by owner and [20]open issues.

     [19] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/actions_owner.html
     [20] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html?view=normal&closed=1

  2.1 Top Level Domains used as filters (.xxx, .mobile, etc.)

    1. Action CL 2004/03/29: Send a draft to www-tag explaining why the
       .mobile proposal is misinformed. If the TAG supports the proposal,
       send to ICANN on the official mailing list.
    2. Action IJ 2004/03/29: Talk to DJW about sending a proposal to the
       TAG (focusing on social issues) that the TAG could review and
       possibly endorse. Progress; I chatted with DJW. We are working on
       a position statement.

  2.2 Marking Operations Safe in WSDL

    1. See [21]Email from David Orchard. Any updates regarding [22]get7?

     [21] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2004Apr/0012.html
     [22] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#whenToUseGet-7

  2.3 Web Architecture Document Last Call

   Resources:
    1. [23]Last Call issues list ([24]sorted by section)
    2. [25]Annotated version of WebArch
    3. Archive of [26]public-webarch-comments
    4. [27]List of actions by TAG participant
    5. Additional actions
         1. Action IJ 2004/02/09: Incorporate editorial suggestions (see
            minutes of that meeting for details).

     [23] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/2003/lc1209/issues.html
     [24] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/2003/lc1209/concerning.html
     [25] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/2003/lc1209/webarchWithIssues.html
     [26] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/
     [27] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/2003/lc1209/actions_owner.html

   Actions 2004/03/15 (due 25 March?) to review sections:
     * Norm: I volunteer for section 3 ([28]Proposed)
     * TBL: I volunteer 2 hours starting at start of section 2
     * Roy: I volunteer to look at section 2
     * Stuart: I volunteer starting at section 2.3
     * Mario: I will look at section 4

     [28] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2004Apr/0011.html

     _________________________________________________________________

3. Status report on these findings

   See also [29]TAG findings
     * [30]abstractComponentRefs-37:
          + 30 Oct 2003 draft finding "[31]Abstract Component References"
     * [32]contentPresentation-26:
          + 30 June 2003 draft finding "[33]Separation of semantic and
            presentational markup, to the extent possible, is
            architecturally sound"
     * [34]metadataInURI-31
     * [35]siteData-36
          + "[36]There is no such thing as a Web site"

     [29] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/findings
     [30] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#abstractComponentRefs-37
     [31] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/abstractComponentRefs-20031030
     [32] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/open-summary.html#contentPresentation-26
     [33] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/contentPresentation-26-20030630.html
     [34] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/open-summary.html#metadataInURI-31
     [35] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#siteData-36
     [36] http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2004/01/08/WebSite36

4. Other action items

     * Action DC 2003/11/15: Follow up on KeepPOSTRecords with Janet Daly
       on how to raise awareness of this point (which is in CUAP).
     * Action CL 2003/10/27: Draft XML mime type thingy with Murata-san

     _________________________________________________________________


    Ian Jacobs for Norm Walsh and TimBL
    Last modified: $Date: 2004/04/19 22:15:26 $


-- 
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org)   http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Tel:                     +1 718 260-9447




