docno="lists-069-14493688"
received="Thu Jun  6 17:44:55 2002"
isoreceived="20020606214455"
sent="Thu, 06 Jun 2002 17:51:16 -0400"
isosent="20020606215116"
name="Wendy A Chisholm"
email="wendy@w3.org"
subject="06 Jun 2002 - WCAG WG Teleconference Minutes"
id="5.1.0.14.2.20020606175011.00ab7c20@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-gl@w3.org


available at:
http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/2002/06/06-minutes.html

Summary

We discussed 4.1 for quite a while. GV will propose new wording to the list 
this week.

GV and BC will be busy until next Tuesday preparing for a major 
Trace-related event, so the earliest we'll get the updated internal draft 
will be later next week. in the meantime, Wendy will update the issues list 
and make some edits to the source and Jason will chase up the wording for 
some of the checkpoints in Guideline 5.



Action Items

Action GV: (with help from ben) create a document that is a master list of 
ideas related to 4.1. These will have 3 levels: fairly solid, possible 
(need work), future.
Action WAC update issues list, move notes to issues list, link to issues list.
Action JW check with CS on wording for guideline 5 text.

-- 
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
seattle, wa usa
/--



