docno="lists-028-8335773"
received="Tue Apr 23 17:39:18 2002"
isoreceived="20020423213918"
sent="Tue, 23 Apr 2002 15:22:51 -0400 (EDT)"
isosent="20020423192251"
name="Marwan Taher"
email="marv@cyberia.net.lb"
subject="Architectural Overview"
id="000001c1eafc$21d5c340$75cd70c3@MARV"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<site-comments@w3.org>


Hello,
With all the capabilitie of the web, HTML, XML, and all it's a bit
dissapointing to arrive at Web Central (w3.org) and be confronted with
lists. And lists of lists. Where's all the structure? If it's there, I
can't see it.

To be more concrete, the number of W3 Recommendations, Drafts, and Notes
is growing and presenting all this in a mini AtoZ or as a huge list in
its own page doesn't help anyone in learning and discovering these
important standards. One must read a lot just to figure out what they
really need to read. One gets confused about what is the current
standard (HTML, XHTML (1.0 or 1.1?), XHTML Basic, Modular, which?). One
doesn't really know if they need to know XML Path when learning XML
Schema, or wether XML Namespaces should be studied before XML Link.

What I'm requesting, oh overworked webmasters and information
dispensers, is an archtiectural overview of W3 standards with some
simple crisp graphs or charts to show how all the standards relate to
one another. Something that can show which standard rely on which
standards. What standards have superseded or have been obsoleted by what
standards. Something that can inform the student of specification X what
specifications A, B, and C they need to know before even attempting to
look at X. Something that will show where future recommendations will
fit into the big picture.

The document-centric structure of W3.org is a bad example of the
structural technologies it embodies.

P.S. Internet Explorer 6 is completely unable to navigate the css styles
page. I know its Microsoft's fault but I think having an alternate
style-free page would be a good idea when you're making pages for the
masses.

//
// Marwan Taher 



