docno="lists-030-12679521"
received="Wed Aug 28 11:28:14 2002"
isoreceived="20020828152814"
sent="Wed, 28 Aug 2002 17:28:10 +0200"
isosent="20020828152810"
name="Kay, Michael"
email="Michael.Kay@softwareag.com"
subject="Moving the XSLT WD to xmlspec 2.2"
id="DFF2AC9E3583D511A21F0008C7E621060453DAD6@daemsg02.software-ag.de"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:spec-prod@w3.org


I have started the process of moving the XSLT 2.0 working draft to conform
with Norm's new xmlspec DTD version 2.2. Previously it used a
locally-modified variant of xmlspec 2.1.

Here are my initial observations:

(a) I had added an attribute "at" to go with "diff", to record the version
at which a change was made. This fulfils the same function as Philippe Le
Hegaret's "since" attribute.

(b) I had also added an element <change> to allow bracketing of a collection
of paragraphs that had been changed at the same time - used in the same way
as <phrase> for sub-paragraph changes. This avoids the need to have the same
"diff" attribute on many adjacent paragraphs. (I don't use this very often
but it's very handy on those occasions: it also enables better rendition
since the resulting change marking can span the paragraph boundaries.)

(c) I had modified the <issue> element so the only thing it requires is an
id attribute that identifies the issue (by name, in my case, but it could be
by number). The actual issues list is held separately for control purposes,
and text is pulled in from the issue list by the stylesheet. This also
allows the document to contain multiple references to the same issue.
Perhaps this should really be an <issueref> element.

(d) I had added markup allowing italics in code sections (to indicate parts
of the code that are variable)

(e) I had added additional data types to the things that can be specified in
a <proto> element as argument types and result types.

Perhaps some of these are things I can fix in the internal DTD subset - I'm
not a DTD expert so please advise!

Otherwise I would appreciate it if either (a) equivalent features could be
added to xmlspec.dtd, or (b) someone could advise me how to get round the
problems.

Thanks,

Michael Kay
(Editor, XSLT specification)



