docno="lists-022-2589002"
received="Sun May  2 16:31:47 2004"
isoreceived="20040502203147"
sent="Sun, 2 May 2004 13:31:50 -0700"
isosent="20040502203150"
name="Natasha Noy"
email="noy@SMI.Stanford.EDU"
subject="Draft minutes of Apr 29 telecon"
id="BDFD2FD3-9C77-11D8-8BD3-000A958B5C28@smi.stanford.edu"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"


To: swbp<public-swbp-wg@w3.org>


SemWeb Best Practices and Deployment WG, April 29, 2004

Present: Guus Schreiber, Ralph Swick, Dan Brickley, Libby Miller, 
Jeremy Carroll, Natasha Noy, Deb McGuinness, Alistair Miles, Mike 
Uschold, Marco Nanni, Evan Wallace, Fabien Gandon, Benjamin Nguyen, 
Aldo Gangemi

Regrets: Brian McBride, David Norheim, Jos De Roo, Gary Ng, Bernard 
Vatant

Chair: Guus

Scribe: Natasha

Agenda: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004Apr/0170.html
IRC Log: http://www.w3.org/2004/04/29-swbp-irc

Resolutions:
RESOLED: accept minutes of the April 15 telecon
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004Apr/0108.html
-- resolved to accept with the correction from Deb 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004Apr/0193.html

RESOLVED: Alternating times between 1400 UTC and 1800 UTC

New actions:

ACTION: Ralph will list future dates and times for the telecons on the 
web site
ACTION: Mike to post a proposal to the list on the syntax to use in 
notes and email
ACTION: Guus to contribute a pattern on quantities for May 27th telecon
ACTION: Guus to contribute a pattern on qualified-cardinality 
restriction for May 27th telecon
ACTION: Deborah to write a pattern on closing roles by June 10th telecon
ACTION: Jeremey to check with Jos if he is participating in the XSCH TF
ACTION: Ralph to add completed and "under consideration" TFs to the 
description on the web page 
(http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/BestPractices/#Tasks)
ACTION: Ralph to talk with the chair of the XML Schema WG to invite 
them to join the XSCH TF
ACTION: Ralph and Jeremy to update XSCH TF description
ACTION: Aldo to forward comments from the WN group to the list
ACTION: Aldo to review the progress in the WN TF at the next telecon 
(May 13th)
ACTION: Aldo to discuss a plan for the May 27th discussion on WN at the 
next telecon (May 13th)
ACTION: Alistair, using the SKOS note as a strawman, to discuss how to 
adapt it to a WG note
ACTION: DanBri to propose a short-term paln for the THES TF
ACTION: DanBri to give access to TF homepage to Alistair

Continued actions:
ACTION: Guus read bernard's e-mail with draft TMAP msg
ACTION: Evan to report on the status of the UML profile for ontologies 
in June
ACTION: Jim report back on short-term plan for World Task Force.
ACTION: Libby and Brian propose repository for apps based on 
test-repository
ACTION: Guus set up link from SWBP home to page to "tips and tricks"
ACTION: Aldo organize 30 min TF discussion on WNET for next telecon.

Action Item Review:
ACTION: Jeremy write TF desc for XML Schema
--completed 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004Apr/0125.html

ACTION: Guus read bernard's e-mail with draft TMAP msg
--continued

ACTION: DanBri investigate publication of Turtle as SWIG note
--dropped

ACTION: Jacco list issues about a link to MPEG
--completed

ACTION: Evan report the status of the <type?> ontologies in June.
--changed to: Evan to report on the status of the UML profile for 
ontologies in June
--continued

ACTION: Jim report back on short-term plan for World Task Force.
--continued

ACTION: Natasha to update the note and summarize email discussion
--completed 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-archive/2004Apr/att-0091/

ACTION: Guus discuss PORT/THES w/DanB for next telecon
--on the agenda for today, action  completed

ACTION: Libby and Brian propose repository for apps based on 
test-repository
--continued

ACTION: Guus set up link from SWBP home to page to "tips and tricks"
--continued

ACTION: Natasha start email discussion summarizing the "note".
--completed  
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004Apr/0163.html

ACTION: Guus invite two WG Chrisyaine Feldman as Invited Expert.
--completed

ACTION: Aldo organize 30 min TF discussion on WNET for next telecon.
--continued (suggested date for the telecon: May 27th with the last 30 
minutes of that telecon will be the WordNet discussion)

Some notes from the discussion.

Telecon time:
Guus: suggests alternating times since everyone can live with it.
Deb: have two fixed alternating times
One time: Thursday 1400 UTC
Another time also fixed: Thursday 1800UTC
Shift these hours after we are out of DST
RESOLVED: alternating times; schedule of dates and times to be posted 
on the web site

Discussion on human-friendly syntax:
Suggested to use N3/turtle in examples
MikeU: use Turtle in documents that we produce, but no restriction on 
what to use in email discussions
Example of using turtle in 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004Apr/0183.html
ACTION: Mike Uschold to post a proposal to the list on the syntax to use

Postponed the discussion on Tom Baker's suggestions since he is not on 
the call

OEP TF discussion

Suggestions to publish the note now and put a preamble that it will be 
part of a larger document
Also publish a template to use for the notes
discussion on whether we should have a normative template for notes now 
or after we have a few notes
RESOLVED: wait until we have more notes to have a normative template
Guus: we need to agree on notes before they are published on the web 
site
For example, after one or more iterations on the classes as values note 
Natasha will mae a proposal to the group to publish it
We decide at the telecon for publishing it (next or the one after that)
Goal to have a decision by May 27th
Fabien: If we're going for small-sized notes with an overall document, 
we should also have a "See Also" section inside the note for people who 
come directly to the note (ex: through Google)
Jeremy: WG review of the notes: assign 1-2 reviewers for notes outside 
the TF
After the note is proposed for publication, have a 2-week period for 
review

Other patterns to publish
Guus: observations and quantities;
Deb: closing-roles pattern (from webont)
Mike: other topics that are related to classes as values
ACTION: Guus to contribute a pattern on quantities for May 27th telecon
ACTION: Guus to contribute a pattern on qualified-cardinality 
restriction for May 27th telecon
ACTION: Deborah to write a pattern on closing roles by June 10th telecon

Task-Force Descriptions

Ralph notes that he has put some of TF descriptions on the web site, 
extracting the descriptions from emails about 24 hours ago 
(http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/BestPractices/#Tasks)
it lists only active TFs
would like to have TFs "under consideration", and completed as well

XSCH Discussion

Participants: Ralph, Jos?
ACTION: Jeremy to check with Jos if he is participating in the TF
Guus: The TF is very important, but no guarantee of success
The scope is "XML Scema datatypes as used on the SW" rather than 
general use of XML Schema datatypes
Suggested: to invite the XML Schema WG to invite them to participate 
draft in
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004Apr/0160.html
ACTION: Ralph to talk with the chair of the XML Schema WG to invite 
them to join the TF
ACTION: Ralph & Jeremy update XSCH TF description

WN TF Discussion

ACTION: Aldo to forward comments from the WN group to the list
ACTION: Aldo to review the progress in the TF at the next telecon
Suggested that the TF prepares the discussion of the difficult 
technical points on May 27th
1. agreeing on the URI
2. Making the OWL disitribution part of the regular distribution of 
WordNet
Controversial issue: producing view files for each synset or having a 
knowledge server provide these views
ACTION: Aldo to discuss a plan for the May 27th discussion at the next 
telecon

WRLD TF
Guus will appreciate some action on WRLD in the next two weeks

PORT/THES TF
there was a lot of discussion off the list (e.g., at XML Europe)
SKOS-Core 1.0 Guide 
http://www.w3.org/2001/Europe/reports/thes/1.0/guide/
ACTION: Alistair to use SKOS note as a strawman and note how to adapt 
it to a WG note
ACTION: danbri to propose a short-term paln for the THES TF
ACTION: danbri to give access to TF homepage to Alistair

Applications and demos TF
Guus hopes that by next time can make some progress on Applications and 
demos TF
Benjamin notes that there is no coordinator on the application and 
demos tf
libby is informally coord for now on apps and demos...but not been able 
to do much lately

Informal meetings at ESWS: Fabien will coordinate



