docno="lists-068-7131930"
received="Sun May  6 16:28:16 2001"
isoreceived="20010506202816"
sent="Sun, 06 May 2001 15:26:21 -0500"
isosent="20010506202621"
name="Jim Thatcher"
email="thatch@attglobal.net"
subject="RE: Extensive forms"
id="NDBBKJDAKKEJDCICIODLGECMDBAA.thatch@attglobal.net"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="D47827B1DE559D458AB76C6E6EADFC662F55B5&#64;tortugas.beacontec.com"
expires="-1"

To:"Slaydon, Eugenia"<ESlaydon@beacontec.com>,w3c-wai-gl@w3.org, jimallan@tsbvi.ed,asgilman@iamdigex.net,jongund@staff.uiuc.edu,ij@w3.org,oedipus@hicom.net
Cc:Don_Barrett@ed.gov


I haven't experienced the "blinking" that Jim Allan talked about. I wonder
how serious it is. The sighted user moves the mouse to one of the input
areas and starts typing. What happens. Does the title keep popping up?

I forgot that I had 5.5 on a different computer and tried it there.
Sometimes the title pops up and disappears. It does not continue blinking. I
think this is not a problem.

The title for input areas is such a good solution to a tough problem. I have
a simplified version of Eugenia's form at
(http://jimthatcher.com/SimpleFormWithTitles.htm). It is also the form I
advocate at the end of the section on accessible forms in the ITTATC Web
Accessibility Course (http://jimthatcher.com/webcourse8.htm). I would like
to hear what others feel about the "blinking concern" in IE 5.5 title popup.

After discussion with the JFW developer yesterday, it is definite that
support for titles will be in a soon to be released update/patch. As I
mentioned before, HPR will support the title attribute and Window-Eyes
already does support it.
Jim
jim@jimthatcher.com
Accessibility Consulting
http://jimthatcher.com
512-306-0931

  -----Original Message-----
  From: w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org [mailto:w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org]On
Behalf Of Slaydon, Eugenia
  Sent: Friday, May 04, 2001 9:44 AM
  To: 'w3c-wai-gl@w3.org'; 'jimallan@tsbvi.ed'; 'asgilman@iamdigex.net';
'jongund@staff.uiuc.edu'; 'ij@w3.org'; 'oedipus@hicom.net';
'thatch@attglobal.net'
  Cc: 'Don_Barrett@ed.gov'
  Subject: RE: Extensive forms


  I want to apologize for the other message earlier today about question
between ALT and TITLE,
  somehow I managed to miss Al's posting on 4/25 about ALT not displaying.
Thank  you Al. I am
  concerned about Jim's find of the blinking test with a title attribute on
IE 5.5. That isn't occuring in
  IE 5.0 or NN 6.0. But I really don't want blinking text since that's a
whole other issue. Sounds like
  I'm stuck again. ALT doesn't work. TITLE is blinking in IE 5.5. LABEL
can't handle it. So if I fix
  the form with TITLE and SCOPE which seems to work great with Homepage
Reader, then I
  make it blink for IE 5.5 users. I realize that the TITLE won't show up as
a tool tip popup for NN
  4.x or some other browsers. That really doesn't worry me. If someone can
"see" the form then the
  popup mouseover isn't necessary (actually I would rather it not be there
at all - especially if it
  blinks!). ALT doesn't popup but the screen readers aren't reading it. So
suggestions? How is this
  handled in the future?

  Eugenia

    RE: Extensive forms & tables accessibility question

    From: Jim Allan (jimallan@tsbvi.edu)
    Date: Wed, Apr 25 2001

    *Next message: Daniel Dardailler: "EARL 0.9 Release"

       * Previous message: Anne Pemberton: "Web page development"
       * In reply to: Al Gilman: "RE: Extensive forms & tables accessibility
question"
       * Next in thread: Al Gilman: "RE: Extensive forms & tables
accessibility question"
       * Messages sorted by: [ date ] [ thread ] [ subject ] [ author ]
       * Other mail archives: [this mailing list] [other W3C mailing lists]
       * Mail actions: [ respond to this message ] [ mail a new topic ]

      ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--

    Date: Wed, 25 Apr 2001 17:06:11 -0500
    From: Jim Allan <jimallan@tsbvi.edu>
    To: Al Gilman <asgilman@iamdigex.net>, w3c-wai-gl@w3.org
    Message-id: <NBBBIBAJLBJPFGFFMBMEIEEPFAAA.jimallan@tsbvi.edu>
    Subject: RE: Extensive forms & tables accessibility question

    I checked out Eugenia's page and found a curious phenomena...
    In IE 5.5 when I put the mouse over an INPUT the tool tip does pop up
but
    FLASHES on and off. This was very distracting. (seems to flash at 2
times
    the speed of the cursor blink, it flashes when the cursor is in an INPUT
or
    when no INPUT as a cursor in it).
    In Netscape 4.7 nothing is displayed
    In Opera 5.1 nothing is displayed.
    Jim Allan, Webmaster & Statewide Technical Support Specialist
    Texas School for the Blind and Visually Impaired
    1100 W. 45th St., Austin, Texas 78756
    voice 512.206.9315    fax: 512.206.9264  http://www.tsbvi.edu/
    "I see the Earth. It is so beautiful."--
    first words spoken by human in space.
    [Yuri Alekseevich Gagarin, from the Vostok 1, April 12, 1961.]

      -----Original Message-----
      From: w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org [mailto:w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org]On
    Behalf Of Al Gilman
      Sent: Wednesday, April 25, 2001 2:58 PM
      To: w3c-wai-gl@w3.org
      Subject: RE: Extensive forms & tables accessibility question

      Contrary to what I previously thought, I now have evidence that the
ALT
    attribute on INPUT will not show up using IE 5.5 and Window-Eyes 4.0.

      So as of now it would appear that the technique that looks best is to
use
    TITLE on the INPUT, at very least where, as in Eugenia's case, there is
no
    suitable LABEL content already showing somewhere on the page.  And
Thatch's
    advice is to ignore LABEL and just TITLE it anyway.

      Al



