docno="lists-101-6111489"
received="Mon Dec  2 03:33:44 2002"
isoreceived="20021202083344"
sent="Mon, 2 Dec 2002 00:33:42 -0800 (PST)"
isosent="20021202083342"
name="Curt Arnold"
email="curta_ontheroad@yahoo.com"
subject="I'm still alive"
id="20021202083342.63816.qmail@web12306.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:www-dom-ts@w3.org


Looks like there have been some action the last week
or so, but I'll have to try to digest it all when I
return home later this week.

I did grab a snapshot of the CVS before I left.  There
seemed to be a lot of minor issues with some of the
newly submitted tests, but I haven't found any time to
try to clean them up.  Hopefully, I'll have a DC power
jack on the flight back and also have time to
reconcile my hacked JSUnit with the current CVS
version.

In the Java harness, you select the parser under test
by either manipulating the parsers in the classpath or
be setting command line switches.  Unfortunately, the
same pattern isn't obviously transferrable to the test
run in the context of a browser.

I had thought about doing a further modification of
JSUnit, so that a test could specify a test
configuration pane.  But since I haven't had a chance
to get even the less controversial mods to JSUnit in,
it was hard to get excited about making an even bigger branch.

__________________________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Mail Plus - Powerful. Affordable. Sign up now.
http://mailplus.yahoo.com



