docno="lists-097-10554433"
received="Thu Dec 13 17:11:00 2001"
isoreceived="20011213221100"
sent="Thu, 13 Dec 2001 17:10:39 -0500"
isosent="20011213221039"
name="Jeff Heflin"
email="heflin@cse.lehigh.edu"
subject="WebOnt Requirements - Next Steps"
id="3C19275F.6A485AD5@cse.lehigh.edu"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="p0510030cb83c8786cab9&#64;[192.168.0.101]"
expires="-1"


To:herman.ter.horst@philips.com,dlm@ksl.stanford.edu,phayes@ai.uwf.edu,jos.deroo.jd@belgium.agfa.com,jjc@hplb.hpl.hp.com,ned.smith@intel.com,connolly@w3.org
CC:hendler@cs.umd.edu,www-archive@w3.org

In order to make it easier for people to check up on the latest versions
of the requirements and votes, I created webpages for each.

http://www.cse.lehigh.edu/~heflin/webont/genreqs.html - This contains
our current list of candidate requirements and issues. I updated this
list with issues raised by Deborah recently, and with some issues that
came up in the telecon. In addition, I've added a new candidate
requirement (R17. Tagging) as a result of Mike Dean's suggestion during
the telecon.

http://www.cse.lehigh.edu/~heflin/webont/votes.html - This contains the
current vote tabulations. It now include Deborah's votes.

Since everyone supports R1, R2, R6, R7, R10, and R14, I'll assume that
these can be considered final requirements without further discussion. I
think the next step is to begin trying to achieve agreement on some of
the undecided and contentious requirements. These requirements, in
decreasing level of support, are: R3, R5, R4, R13, R15, R11, R12, and
R9. I suggest that we start separate threads to discuss these
requirements (please put WebOnt Requirements and the appropriate
requirement number in the subject). Would a few people care to kick off
the discussion on their favorite requirements in the set? The idea
should be to try to convince the undecided and against voters why they
should support the requirement. Ideally, all of our final requirements
will be supported by the entire group, but we may have to settle for
majority support and no against votes depending on what kind of headway
we make.

Jeff



