docno="lists-069-3658026"
received="Mon Sep 17 22:19:36 2001"
isoreceived="20010918021936"
sent="Mon, 17 Sep 2001 22:10:00 -0400"
isosent="20010918021000"
name="Katie Haritos-Shea"
email="ryladog@earthlink.net"
subject="Re: media mix and universal connectedness, plus SENSES and CHOICES"
id="LPBBLABFJBGNHPLEJINNKELICKAA.ryladog@earthlink.net"
charset="Windows-1252"
inreplyto="media mix and universal connectedness, plus SENSES and CHOICES"
expires="-1"

To:"3WC WCAG"<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


Part of the reason we convey information to others is the hope/intent of
storing that snippet into the brain and memories of our audience.  A sharing
of personal knowledge or experience..............

IMAGES:
Though I am visually sighted, I did not want to see the images of people
jumping out of windows of the WTC, and maintain that recurrent disturbing
visual picture in my memory.  Just because the information is available in
greater "richness" does not necessarily mean that we should want to take it
in that fashion. It is a personal choice.

TEXT:
When I finally felt the need to update my information about our new reality,
I chose text, a newspaper, because I felt it to be more
controllable..............I could stop reading and put it down before it
became too overwhelming.  It was the bite-size way that I could handle
items, that made this mode best for me.

Personally, I would like a choice............and I believe that providing
alternatives is just that.

OLFACTORY:
If and when we can associate "smell" as an alternative or enhancement, will
be a great day for me...............but only as it relates to my memories of
how a loved one, or a favored meal, a special flower,
pertains................I want the choice of filtering it out when the
discussion or memory of Girl Scout latrines come up!

AURAL:
To hear my loved ones on the phone saying that they are safe and alive was
the most accurate and comforting way...........(in the absence of actually
being together)...........to assess their true situations.  The fear and
uncertainty transgress the physical lines.  And, the concreteness of how
"alright" someone is, is preserved. Sound has it's own powerful ability to
store everlasting impressions.  There are numerous experiences in my life
that I recall solely by the words of someone imprinted in my brain.  Though
other information was available, the vision of the person, for instance, is
not remembered.  The brain has chosen to imprint this memory as the verbal
sound of their voice, or the rumble of the train, only.  This information
was potent enough without all the other extraneous senses adding noise to
what was apparently mostly an aural event to my brain.  Often, it is the
sound of someone's voice that provides the most comfort to me, above all
other modes.
I am certain that I will never be able to hear "Aidlewise" (German song
about the flower, sorry I butchered the spelling), without thinking of the
Alps in the movie the Sound of Music.  That same song would mean something
else to another.

TOUCH:
When and if..........................

SPIRIT:
When and if..........................


My ideal web page/memorial of this last weeks experience would have a
fiery-red sky with the sun setting over the Olympic Mountains on Puget
Sound...............transgressing to the dark evening sky with millions of
hopefully sparkling stars, as the background
image........................the smell of fresh pine trees and a
wood-burning fire..................the sound of sea-gulls, the gentle lap of
waves on the shore, a slow cautious freight-train passing bye, and the
murmur of families out on an evening walk.............a soft pleasant wind
on my cheek, a scruffy silly dog nuzzling my side.  The spiritual affect,
would be a comforting hug..........<h1>The qualities that bind us are
stronger than the differences that divide us</h1>, the remaining text
carefully floating over the page in <cite> tags.............."If we don't go
on with our work at this meeting, then the terrorists have
succeeded........" Gregg V., "Is it going to be OK mommy? I don't want you
to fly anywhere........" Veronika & Sabrina H., "I think I want to go home
and be with my wife, she is very disturbed by this, and doesn't want to be
alone........." Charles M., "How can I sit here and non-chalantly eat a nice
pleasant meal as people are dying in the rubble?" Wendy C., "cmn wonders if
the United States military shot down the plane in Pennsylvania.........."
irc post, "Free apples for those who hope that the United States will not
resort to violence..........." Sign on table at a farmers market, "Let me in
my fu**ing house........" John B. after a long struggle to return home from
overseas, "We have all been reminded of the ugly face of hate and
violence..................what face do you want your loved ones to remember
you as wearing?.................." Katie HS



