docno="lists-066-10998149"
received="Fri Jul 30 21:01:56 1999"
isoreceived="19990731010156"
sent="Sat, 31 Jul 1999 11:01:47 +1000 (AEST)"
isosent="19990731010147"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
subject="Suggested issues that may be addressed in next version of guidelines"
id="Pine.SUN.3.95.990731103430.24678E-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


I would like to propose several areas of potential development which may
be considered by this working group for inclusion in the next version of
the guidelines. Most have already been raised in discussion:

1. The design of XML applications, including document formal grammars, to
ensure accessibility.

2. The use of scalable vector graphics (svg) to provide interactive
descriptions of visual content and, possibly, as a basis for generating
tactile graphics. At the moment, all that the guidelines are able to
require is that textual labels be associated with images and with the
active regions of image maps. Are any further checkpoints required in
relation to svg?

3. Sign language translations of documents (is there an overlap here with
W3C's internationalisation work?)

4. There should be a review of terminology in the guidelines and
techniques document to bring it into conformity with the definitions
established by the Web Characterisation Activity. These are currently at
the working draft stage: http://www.w3.org/1999/05/WCA-TERMS/

5. The construction of "directly accessible" client-side scripts. Should
there be more specific checkpoints in this area?

6. Checkpoints relevant to cognitive disabilities should be reviewed and,
where possible, improved, on the basis of well founded research in this
field.

7. The advantages and drawbacks of using metadata to classify web content
as to its accessibility, reading level, etc., should be considered. For
example, in addition to a visible icon and conformance statement, should
documents conforming to the guidelines also be marked with appropriate
metadata?



