docno="lists-059-11242592"
received="Thu Jun  7 16:37:21 2001"
isoreceived="20010607203721"
sent="Thu, 07 Jun 2001 16:36:53 -0400"
isosent="20010607203653"
name="Jan Richards"
email="jan.richards@utoronto.ca"
subject="Wombat Subtext 3.1, 3.2, 3.1, 3.2"
id="3B1FE5E5.6EF3E40A@utoronto.ca"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:"w3c-wai-au@w3.org"<w3c-wai-au@w3.org>

Hello all,

Here are some ideas for subtext:

NOTE: I am still working on 3.2. Any ideas?

3.1 Prompt the author to provide equivalent alternative information
(e.g., captions, auditory descriptions, and collated text transcripts
for video). [Relative Priority] 

This checkpoint requires authoring tools to ask for (and support the
creation of) alternate text, captions, auditory descriptions, collated
text transcripts for video, etc. at times appropriate to the author-tool
interaction. At minimum, when any applicable non-text objects (see WCAG)
are inserted by the tool, a means for adding the alternative information
should be provided. More advanced implementations might provide special
authoring facilities that automate some of the process of generating
alternative information (ex. voice recognition to produce collated text
transcripts). Note that although this checkpoint has a relative
priority, some checkpoints in the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
1.0 [WCAG10] may not apply.

3.2 Help the author create structured content and separate information
from its presentation. [Relative Priority]

This checkpoint is a special case of Checkpoint 1.3 and Checkpoint 5.2.
that highlights structured content and independence between information
and presentation as critical accessibility requirements. At minimum,
???. More advanced implementations might ???. Note that although this
checkpoint has a relative priority, some checkpoints in the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 [WCAG10] may not apply.

3.3 Do not automatically generate equivalent alternatives. Do not reuse
previously authored alternatives without author confirmation, except
when the function is known with certainty. [Priority 1]

This checkpoint prohibits authoring tools from generating potentially
meaningless equivalent alternatives, such as the object's file name, by
default. The function of an object may be "known with certainty" when
the object is placed by the tool for a specific purpose or the user has
defined a purpose. For example, if a tool automatically generates a
navigation bar for all pages on a site, it is acceptable to propagate
the text equivalent(s) for images that link to searching, the table of
contents, etc. At minimum, when a new object is inserted and the
function is unknown, the tool should prompt the author to enter an
appropriate equivalent alternative without providing a default entry.
More advanced implementations might offer, as a default entry, a human
authored equivalent that has previously been associated with the object
by the author or within a prepackaged directory for the tool (ex. clip
art gallery). Refer also to checkpoint 1.4 and checkpoint 3.4.

3.4 Provide functionality for managing, editing, and reusing alternative
equivalents for multimedia objects. [Priority 3]

This checkpoint requires encourages authoring tools to implement
management systems for alternative equivalents in order to simplify
their use. At minimum, the system should store associations between the
multimedia objects and alternatives created by the author, allowing the
author edit the alternatives and reuse them easily. More advanced
implementations might collect alternatives from a variety of sources
(the author, prepackaged, the Web) and provide powerful tools for
managing the associations, including search functions and object
similarity estimates.





-- 
Cheers,
Jan

/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\

Jan Richards
Adaptive Technology Resource Centre (ATRC)
University of Toronto

jan.richards@utoronto.ca
Tel: (416) 946-7060  Fax: (416) 971-2896

/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\



