docno="lists-086-12458563"
received="Fri Sep 12 01:08:46 1997"
isoreceived="19970912050846"
sent="Fri, 12 Sep 1997 15:08:39 +1000 (AEST)"
isosent="19970912050839"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
subject="Re: Dave Raggett: Re: IMG ALT attribute in HTML 4.0 (fwd)"
id="Pine.SUN.3.95.970912145034.1993B-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="Pine.SUN.3.95.970912103022.10077A-100000&#64;ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
expires="-1"

To: WAI Working Group<w3c-wai-wg@w3.org>


Might it be possible to construct HTML guidelines which would enable a
long description to be associated with a server side map, but in a
visually unobtrusive fashion; analogously to using coordinates of (0, 0)
in a server side map as a link to a textual alternative? One approach
could be to define coordinates that refer to an area which is actually
outside the boundaries of the client side map, but which is appropriately
labeled as a description. The typical user, who is interacting with the
graphical presentation, would be unlikely to select these coordinates, but
a person who is reading the ALT text would be able to do so, thereby
activating a link to a long description. I am not sure whether this
solution would be feasible in practice. It is purely speculative, but
perhaps worth raising nonetheless. Another possibility would be to
associate a title with the image map (perhaps a heading above the map, or
a caption below it) which could serve also as a link to a more detailed
description.

Stated more generally, my question is whether guidelines that are
compatible with existing implementations and standards, but not
objectionable on the ground that, like the d-link proposal, they result in
substantial detriment to the visual appearance of a document, could be
developed to accommodate the Longdesc requirement with respect to image
maps.



