docno="lists-033-2410606"
received="Wed Oct 16 22:21:13 2002"
isoreceived="20021017022113"
sent="Thu, 17 Oct 2002 02:20:40 +0000"
isosent="20021017022040"
name="agamebu1g iseke"
email="agamebu1g@hotmail.com"
subject="BUSINESS  RELATIONSHIP"
id="F27tneqdGSyMp69YDqS000004d6@hotmail.com"
expires="-1"

To:agamebu1g@hotmail.com











FROM THE DESK OF:
ENGR.AGAMEBU ISEKE
ECOWAS SECRETARIATE
CONTRACT AWARD UNIT
ABUJA-NIGERIA.
TEL NO:+234 1 775 54 75

    RE-REQUEST FOR PRIVATE BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP.

  It is with my profound dignity that I write you this
very important and highly confidential letter. First,
I must solicit your strictest confidentiality in this
transaction. This is by virtue of its nature as being
utterly CONFIDENTIAL and "TOP SECRET".My partners and
I unanimously agreed to use a total stranger for this
project because of the confidentail nature of this
transaction.
After series of prayers/fasting to find a God fearing
person who will not disappoint us,i was then divinely
inspired and motivated to pick your contact from many
names and list of professional in internet database .
After discussing my view with my colleagues,they were
very much satisfied and decided to contact you
immediately for this mutual business relationship.
Though I know that a transaction of this magnitude
will make any one apprehensive and worried,considering
the fact that we have not met each other before,but I
am assuring you that all will be well at the end of
the day. We have decided to contact you by email due
to the urgency of this transaction,as we have been
reliably informed that it will take at least a minimum
of two to three weeks for a normal post to reach you,
so we decided it is best using the e-mail,which is
quicker and also to enable us meet up with this
payment quarter for the
year 2002 which has already begun.However, let me
start by introducing myself properly to you. I am
Engr. AGAMEBU ISEKE head of the seven man tenders board
in charge of Contract Awards and Payment Approvals. I
came to know of you in my search for a reliable and
reputable person to handle a very confidential
business transaction which involves the transfer of a
huge sum of money to a foreign account requiring
maximum CONFIDENCE and TRUST. I and my colleagues are
Top Officials of the Ecowas contract Review and Award
Panel. Our duties include Evaluation, Vetting,
Approval for payment of Contract jobs done for the
Ecowas .In order to commence this business we solicit
for your assistance to enable us transfer into your
Account the said funds.The source of this funds is as
follows: In the first quarter of 2001 this committee
was mandated to review and award contracts to the tune
of US$400 million US dollars to a group of five firms
for the supply of foods and medical drugs, hospital
equiptments,computer hardware and soft ware to the
crises countries during the Ecowas peace keeping
mission. During this process my colleagues and I
decided and agreed among ourselves to deliberately
over-inflate the total contract sum from US$400
million to US$425 million United States dollars with
the main intention of sharing the remaining sum of
US$25 miilion amongst ourselves.Ecowas has since last
year approved the sum of US$425 million for us as the
contract sum, and the sum of US$400 million has also
been paid to the foreign companies concerned as
contract entitlements for the various contracts done
by Federal Credit And Commerce Bank, but since the
companies are entiltled to US$400 million dollars
only, we are now left with US$25 million dollars
balance in the account which we intend to pay out
urgently , but by virtue of our positions as civil
servants and members of this panel, we cannot do this
by ourselves, as we are prohibited by the Code of
Conduct Bureau (Civil Service Laws) from opening
and/or operating foreign accounts in our names while
still in Government service, making it impossible for
us to acquire the money in our names right now. I have
therefore, been delegated as a matter of trust and
urgency by my colleagues in the panel to look for an
overseas partner into whose account we would transfer
the sum of US$25 million. Hence this mail to you.My
Colleagues and I have agreed that if you or your
company can act as the beneficiary of this funds on
our behalf, you or your Company will retain 30% of the
total amount (US$25 million), while 65% will be for us
(OFFICIALS) and the remaining 5% will be used in
offsetting all debts/expenses and Taxes incurred both
local and foreign in the cause of this transfer.
Needless to say, the trust reposed on you at this
juncture is enormous. In return we demand your
complete honesty and trust.
NOTE : This transaction will be strictly based on the
following terms and conditions as we have stated
below:(a)Our conviction of your transparent honesty
and diligence.
(b) That you would treat this transaction with utmost
secrecy and confidentiality

(c) That you will not ask for more share or try to sit
on the funds once it is under your custody, or any
form of blackmail to allow run away with this fund.

(d) That upon receipt of the funds you will release
the funds as instructed by us after you have removed
your share of 30% from the total amount before our
arrival in your country as it will take us time to
retire and get our travel documents before our
arrival.This transaction is 100% legal and risk free
and we hope to conclude this transaction seven bank
working days from the date of receipt of the necessary
requirements from you . We are looking forward to
doing business with you and solicit your Total
Confidentiality in this transaction. I give you my
word that you are completely safe in doing business
with us. Transactions like this have been successfully
carried out in the past by most Government executives.
Here in my country there is great economic and
political disarray and thus looting and corruption is
rampant and the order of the day, thus explaining why
you might have heard stories of how money is been
taken out of this country through foreigners
assistance like you, this is because everyone is
making desperate attempts to secure his or her future,
so that when we retire peacefully from active service
we do not languish in poverty.
  Once we receive your interest on this deal,We will
proceed with the process immediately so that your name
will be shortlisted in the next batch of contractors
that will be receiving their contract payment which
the date will be announced by ECOWAS soon and to meet
up with the limited time targetted to conclude this
deal.We will also proceed to procure all the
legal/necessary documents that will confirm you the
true beneficiary of the fund to forestall any hitch in
the course of receiving the fund. While thanking you
for your anticipated co-operation,it is my fervent
hope that you call me on my private Tel No:+234 1 775
54 75 me immediately for more detailed information .
   NB: For Confidentiality Reason and due to the poor
tele-communication system in Nigeria here,Most often
foreign calls could be diverted to the wrong person.So
for you to be very sure you are rightly speaking with
me,it is very important that when you call and ask for
me,the moment i pick up the phone,you should ask me
for the "CODE WORD" and my answer would be " PROGRESS"
before we proceed discussions,But if i do not say
"PROGRESS",that means you are not speaking with me
just disconnect the call and call back till i give you
the "CODE WORD".


God Bless

With Regards.
ENGR: AGAMEBU ISEKE






FROM THE DESK OF:
ENGR.AGAMEBU ISEKE
ECOWAS SECRETARIATE
CONTRACT AWARD UNIT
ABUJA-NIGERIA.
TEL NO:+234 1 775 54 75

    RE-REQUEST FOR PRIVATE BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP.

  It is with my profound dignity that I write you this
very important and highly confidential letter. First,
I must solicit your strictest confidentiality in this
transaction. This is by virtue of its nature as being
utterly CONFIDENTIAL and "TOP SECRET".My partners and
I unanimously agreed to use a total stranger for this
project because of the confidentail nature of this
transaction.
After series of prayers/fasting to find a God fearing
person who will not disappoint us,i was then divinely
inspired and motivated to pick your contact from many
names and list of professional in internet database .
After discussing my view with my colleagues,they were
very much satisfied and decided to contact you
immediately for this mutual business relationship.
Though I know that a transaction of this magnitude
will make any one apprehensive and worried,considering
the fact that we have not met each other before,but I
am assuring you that all will be well at the end of
the day. We have decided to contact you by email due
to the urgency of this transaction,as we have been
reliably informed that it will take at least a minimum
of two to three weeks for a normal post to reach you,
so we decided it is best using the e-mail,which is
quicker and also to enable us meet up with this
payment quarter for the
year 2002 which has already begun.However, let me
start by introducing myself properly to you. I am
Engr. AGAMEBU ISEKE head of the seven man tenders board
in charge of Contract Awards and Payment Approvals. I
came to know of you in my search for a reliable and
reputable person to handle a very confidential
business transaction which involves the transfer of a
huge sum of money to a foreign account requiring
maximum CONFIDENCE and TRUST. I and my colleagues are
Top Officials of the Ecowas contract Review and Award
Panel. Our duties include Evaluation, Vetting,
Approval for payment of Contract jobs done for the
Ecowas .In order to commence this business we solicit
for your assistance to enable us transfer into your
Account the said funds.The source of this funds is as
follows: In the first quarter of 2001 this committee
was mandated to review and award contracts to the tune
of US$400 million US dollars to a group of five firms
for the supply of foods and medical drugs, hospital
equiptments,computer hardware and soft ware to the
crises countries during the Ecowas peace keeping
mission. During this process my colleagues and I
decided and agreed among ourselves to deliberately
over-inflate the total contract sum from US$400
million to US$425 million United States dollars with
the main intention of sharing the remaining sum of
US$25 miilion amongst ourselves.Ecowas has since last
year approved the sum of US$425 million for us as the
contract sum, and the sum of US$400 million has also
been paid to the foreign companies concerned as
contract entitlements for the various contracts done
by Federal Credit And Commerce Bank, but since the
companies are entiltled to US$400 million dollars
only, we are now left with US$25 million dollars
balance in the account which we intend to pay out
urgently , but by virtue of our positions as civil
servants and members of this panel, we cannot do this
by ourselves, as we are prohibited by the Code of
Conduct Bureau (Civil Service Laws) from opening
and/or operating foreign accounts in our names while
still in Government service, making it impossible for
us to acquire the money in our names right now. I have
therefore, been delegated as a matter of trust and
urgency by my colleagues in the panel to look for an
overseas partner into whose account we would transfer
the sum of US$25 million. Hence this mail to you.My
Colleagues and I have agreed that if you or your
company can act as the beneficiary of this funds on
our behalf, you or your Company will retain 30% of the
total amount (US$25 million), while 65% will be for us
(OFFICIALS) and the remaining 5% will be used in
offsetting all debts/expenses and Taxes incurred both
local and foreign in the cause of this transfer.
Needless to say, the trust reposed on you at this
juncture is enormous. In return we demand your
complete honesty and trust.
NOTE : This transaction will be strictly based on the
following terms and conditions as we have stated
below:(a)Our conviction of your transparent honesty
and diligence.
(b) That you would treat this transaction with utmost
secrecy and confidentiality

(c) That you will not ask for more share or try to sit
on the funds once it is under your custody, or any
form of blackmail to allow run away with this fund.

(d) That upon receipt of the funds you will release
the funds as instructed by us after you have removed
your share of 30% from the total amount before our
arrival in your country as it will take us time to
retire and get our travel documents before our
arrival.This transaction is 100% legal and risk free
and we hope to conclude this transaction seven bank
working days from the date of receipt of the necessary
requirements from you . We are looking forward to
doing business with you and solicit your Total
Confidentiality in this transaction. I give you my
word that you are completely safe in doing business
with us. Transactions like this have been successfully
carried out in the past by most Government executives.
Here in my country there is great economic and
political disarray and thus looting and corruption is
rampant and the order of the day, thus explaining why
you might have heard stories of how money is been
taken out of this country through foreigners
assistance like you, this is because everyone is
making desperate attempts to secure his or her future,
so that when we retire peacefully from active service
we do not languish in poverty.
  Once we receive your interest on this deal,We will
proceed with the process immediately so that your name
will be shortlisted in the next batch of contractors
that will be receiving their contract payment which
the date will be announced by ECOWAS soon and to meet
up with the limited time targetted to conclude this
deal.We will also proceed to procure all the
legal/necessary documents that will confirm you the
true beneficiary of the fund to forestall any hitch in
the course of receiving the fund. While thanking you
for your anticipated co-operation,it is my fervent
hope that you call me on my private Tel No:+234 1 775
54 75 me immediately for more detailed information .
   NB: For Confidentiality Reason and due to the poor
tele-communication system in Nigeria here,Most often
foreign calls could be diverted to the wrong person.So
for you to be very sure you are rightly speaking with
me,it is very important that when you call and ask for
me,the moment i pick up the phone,you should ask me
for the "CODE WORD" and my answer would be " PROGRESS"
before we proceed discussions,But if i do not say
"PROGRESS",that means you are not speaking with me
just disconnect the call and call back till i give you
the "CODE WORD".


God Bless

With Regards.
ENGR: AGAMEBU ISEKE






FROM THE DESK OF:
ENGR.AGAMEBU ISEKE
ECOWAS SECRETARIATE
CONTRACT AWARD UNIT
ABUJA-NIGERIA.
TEL NO:+234 1 775 54 75

    RE-REQUEST FOR PRIVATE BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP.

  It is with my profound dignity that I write you this
very important and highly confidential letter. First,
I must solicit your strictest confidentiality in this
transaction. This is by virtue of its nature as being
utterly CONFIDENTIAL and "TOP SECRET".My partners and
I unanimously agreed to use a total stranger for this
project because of the confidentail nature of this
transaction.
After series of prayers/fasting to find a God fearing
person who will not disappoint us,i was then divinely
inspired and motivated to pick your contact from many
names and list of professional in internet database .
After discussing my view with my colleagues,they were
very much satisfied and decided to contact you
immediately for this mutual business relationship.
Though I know that a transaction of this magnitude
will make any one apprehensive and worried,considering
the fact that we have not met each other before,but I
am assuring you that all will be well at the end of
the day. We have decided to contact you by email due
to the urgency of this transaction,as we have been
reliably informed that it will take at least a minimum
of two to three weeks for a normal post to reach you,
so we decided it is best using the e-mail,which is
quicker and also to enable us meet up with this
payment quarter for the
year 2002 which has already begun.However, let me
start by introducing myself properly to you. I am
Engr. AGAMEBU ISEKE head of the seven man tenders board
in charge of Contract Awards and Payment Approvals. I
came to know of you in my search for a reliable and
reputable person to handle a very confidential
business transaction which involves the transfer of a
huge sum of money to a foreign account requiring
maximum CONFIDENCE and TRUST. I and my colleagues are
Top Officials of the Ecowas contract Review and Award
Panel. Our duties include Evaluation, Vetting,
Approval for payment of Contract jobs done for the
Ecowas .In order to commence this business we solicit
for your assistance to enable us transfer into your
Account the said funds.The source of this funds is as
follows: In the first quarter of 2001 this committee
was mandated to review and award contracts to the tune
of US$400 million US dollars to a group of five firms
for the supply of foods and medical drugs, hospital
equiptments,computer hardware and soft ware to the
crises countries during the Ecowas peace keeping
mission. During this process my colleagues and I
decided and agreed among ourselves to deliberately
over-inflate the total contract sum from US$400
million to US$425 million United States dollars with
the main intention of sharing the remaining sum of
US$25 miilion amongst ourselves.Ecowas has since last
year approved the sum of US$425 million for us as the
contract sum, and the sum of US$400 million has also
been paid to the foreign companies concerned as
contract entitlements for the various contracts done
by Federal Credit And Commerce Bank, but since the
companies are entiltled to US$400 million dollars
only, we are now left with US$25 million dollars
balance in the account which we intend to pay out
urgently , but by virtue of our positions as civil
servants and members of this panel, we cannot do this
by ourselves, as we are prohibited by the Code of
Conduct Bureau (Civil Service Laws) from opening
and/or operating foreign accounts in our names while
still in Government service, making it impossible for
us to acquire the money in our names right now. I have
therefore, been delegated as a matter of trust and
urgency by my colleagues in the panel to look for an
overseas partner into whose account we would transfer
the sum of US$25 million. Hence this mail to you.My
Colleagues and I have agreed that if you or your
company can act as the beneficiary of this funds on
our behalf, you or your Company will retain 30% of the
total amount (US$25 million), while 65% will be for us
(OFFICIALS) and the remaining 5% will be used in
offsetting all debts/expenses and Taxes incurred both
local and foreign in the cause of this transfer.
Needless to say, the trust reposed on you at this
juncture is enormous. In return we demand your
complete honesty and trust.
NOTE : This transaction will be strictly based on the
following terms and conditions as we have stated
below:(a)Our conviction of your transparent honesty
and diligence.
(b) That you would treat this transaction with utmost
secrecy and confidentiality

(c) That you will not ask for more share or try to sit
on the funds once it is under your custody, or any
form of blackmail to allow run away with this fund.

(d) That upon receipt of the funds you will release
the funds as instructed by us after you have removed
your share of 30% from the total amount before our
arrival in your country as it will take us time to
retire and get our travel documents before our
arrival.This transaction is 100% legal and risk free
and we hope to conclude this transaction seven bank
working days from the date of receipt of the necessary
requirements from you . We are looking forward to
doing business with you and solicit your Total
Confidentiality in this transaction. I give you my
word that you are completely safe in doing business
with us. Transactions like this have been successfully
carried out in the past by most Government executives.
Here in my country there is great economic and
political disarray and thus looting and corruption is
rampant and the order of the day, thus explaining why
you might have heard stories of how money is been
taken out of this country through foreigners
assistance like you, this is because everyone is
making desperate attempts to secure his or her future,
so that when we retire peacefully from active service
we do not languish in poverty.
  Once we receive your interest on this deal,We will
proceed with the process immediately so that your name
will be shortlisted in the next batch of contractors
that will be receiving their contract payment which
the date will be announced by ECOWAS soon and to meet
up with the limited time targetted to conclude this
deal.We will also proceed to procure all the
legal/necessary documents that will confirm you the
true beneficiary of the fund to forestall any hitch in
the course of receiving the fund. While thanking you
for your anticipated co-operation,it is my fervent
hope that you call me on my private Tel No:+234 1 775
54 75 me immediately for more detailed information .
   NB: For Confidentiality Reason and due to the poor
tele-communication system in Nigeria here,Most often
foreign calls could be diverted to the wrong person.So
for you to be very sure you are rightly speaking with
me,it is very important that when you call and ask for
me,the moment i pick up the phone,you should ask me
for the "CODE WORD" and my answer would be " PROGRESS"
before we proceed discussions,But if i do not say
"PROGRESS",that means you are not speaking with me
just disconnect the call and call back till i give you
the "CODE WORD".


God Bless

With Regards.
ENGR: AGAMEBU ISEKE






FROM THE DESK OF:
ENGR.AGAMEBU ISEKE
ECOWAS SECRETARIATE
CONTRACT AWARD UNIT
ABUJA-NIGERIA.
TEL NO:+234 1 775 54 75

    RE-REQUEST FOR PRIVATE BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP.

  It is with my profound dignity that I write you this
very important and highly confidential letter. First,
I must solicit your strictest confidentiality in this
transaction. This is by virtue of its nature as being
utterly CONFIDENTIAL and "TOP SECRET".My partners and
I unanimously agreed to use a total stranger for this
project because of the confidentail nature of this
transaction.
After series of prayers/fasting to find a God fearing
person who will not disappoint us,i was then divinely
inspired and motivated to pick your contact from many
names and list of professional in internet database .
After discussing my view with my colleagues,they were
very much satisfied and decided to contact you
immediately for this mutual business relationship.
Though I know that a transaction of this magnitude
will make any one apprehensive and worried,considering
the fact that we have not met each other before,but I
am assuring you that all will be well at the end of
the day. We have decided to contact you by email due
to the urgency of this transaction,as we have been
reliably informed that it will take at least a minimum
of two to three weeks for a normal post to reach you,
so we decided it is best using the e-mail,which is
quicker and also to enable us meet up with this
payment quarter for the
year 2002 which has already begun.However, let me
start by introducing myself properly to you. I am
Engr. AGAMEBU ISEKE head of the seven man tenders board
in charge of Contract Awards and Payment Approvals. I
came to know of you in my search for a reliable and
reputable person to handle a very confidential
business transaction which involves the transfer of a
huge sum of money to a foreign account requiring
maximum CONFIDENCE and TRUST. I and my colleagues are
Top Officials of the Ecowas contract Review and Award
Panel. Our duties include Evaluation, Vetting,
Approval for payment of Contract jobs done for the
Ecowas .In order to commence this business we solicit
for your assistance to enable us transfer into your
Account the said funds.The source of this funds is as
follows: In the first quarter of 2001 this committee
was mandated to review and award contracts to the tune
of US$400 million US dollars to a group of five firms
for the supply of foods and medical drugs, hospital
equiptments,computer hardware and soft ware to the
crises countries during the Ecowas peace keeping
mission. During this process my colleagues and I
decided and agreed among ourselves to deliberately
over-inflate the total contract sum from US$400
million to US$425 million United States dollars with
the main intention of sharing the remaining sum of
US$25 miilion amongst ourselves.Ecowas has since last
year approved the sum of US$425 million for us as the
contract sum, and the sum of US$400 million has also
been paid to the foreign companies concerned as
contract entitlements for the various contracts done
by Federal Credit And Commerce Bank, but since the
companies are entiltled to US$400 million dollars
only, we are now left with US$25 million dollars
balance in the account which we intend to pay out
urgently , but by virtue of our positions as civil
servants and members of this panel, we cannot do this
by ourselves, as we are prohibited by the Code of
Conduct Bureau (Civil Service Laws) from opening
and/or operating foreign accounts in our names while
still in Government service, making it impossible for
us to acquire the money in our names right now. I have
therefore, been delegated as a matter of trust and
urgency by my colleagues in the panel to look for an
overseas partner into whose account we would transfer
the sum of US$25 million. Hence this mail to you.My
Colleagues and I have agreed that if you or your
company can act as the beneficiary of this funds on
our behalf, you or your Company will retain 30% of the
total amount (US$25 million), while 65% will be for us
(OFFICIALS) and the remaining 5% will be used in
offsetting all debts/expenses and Taxes incurred both
local and foreign in the cause of this transfer.
Needless to say, the trust reposed on you at this
juncture is enormous. In return we demand your
complete honesty and trust.
NOTE : This transaction will be strictly based on the
following terms and conditions as we have stated
below:(a)Our conviction of your transparent honesty
and diligence.
(b) That you would treat this transaction with utmost
secrecy and confidentiality

(c) That you will not ask for more share or try to sit
on the funds once it is under your custody, or any
form of blackmail to allow run away with this fund.

(d) That upon receipt of the funds you will release
the funds as instructed by us after you have removed
your share of 30% from the total amount before our
arrival in your country as it will take us time to
retire and get our travel documents before our
arrival.This transaction is 100% legal and risk free
and we hope to conclude this transaction seven bank
working days from the date of receipt of the necessary
requirements from you . We are looking forward to
doing business with you and solicit your Total
Confidentiality in this transaction. I give you my
word that you are completely safe in doing business
with us. Transactions like this have been successfully
carried out in the past by most Government executives.
Here in my country there is great economic and
political disarray and thus looting and corruption is
rampant and the order of the day, thus explaining why
you might have heard stories of how money is been
taken out of this country through foreigners
assistance like you, this is because everyone is
making desperate attempts to secure his or her future,
so that when we retire peacefully from active service
we do not languish in poverty.
  Once we receive your interest on this deal,We will
proceed with the process immediately so that your name
will be shortlisted in the next batch of contractors
that will be receiving their contract payment which
the date will be announced by ECOWAS soon and to meet
up with the limited time targetted to conclude this
deal.We will also proceed to procure all the
legal/necessary documents that will confirm you the
true beneficiary of the fund to forestall any hitch in
the course of receiving the fund. While thanking you
for your anticipated co-operation,it is my fervent
hope that you call me on my private Tel No:+234 1 775
54 75 me immediately for more detailed information .
   NB: For Confidentiality Reason and due to the poor
tele-communication system in Nigeria here,Most often
foreign calls could be diverted to the wrong person.So
for you to be very sure you are rightly speaking with
me,it is very important that when you call and ask for
me,the moment i pick up the phone,you should ask me
for the "CODE WORD" and my answer would be " PROGRESS"
before we proceed discussions,But if i do not say
"PROGRESS",that means you are not speaking with me
just disconnect the call and call back till i give you
the "CODE WORD".


God Bless

With Regards.
ENGR: AGAMEBU ISEKE






FROM THE DESK OF:
ENGR.AGAMEBU ISEKE
ECOWAS SECRETARIATE
CONTRACT AWARD UNIT
ABUJA-NIGERIA.
TEL NO:+234 1 775 54 75

    RE-REQUEST FOR PRIVATE BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP.

  It is with my profound dignity that I write you this
very important and highly confidential letter. First,
I must solicit your strictest confidentiality in this
transaction. This is by virtue of its nature as being
utterly CONFIDENTIAL and "TOP SECRET".My partners and
I unanimously agreed to use a total stranger for this
project because of the confidentail nature of this
transaction.
After series of prayers/fasting to find a God fearing
person who will not disappoint us,i was then divinely
inspired and motivated to pick your contact from many
names and list of professional in internet database .
After discussing my view with my colleagues,they were
very much satisfied and decided to contact you
immediately for this mutual business relationship.
Though I know that a transaction of this magnitude
will make any one apprehensive and worried,considering
the fact that we have not met each other before,but I
am assuring you that all will be well at the end of
the day. We have decided to contact you by email due
to the urgency of this transaction,as we have been
reliably informed that it will take at least a minimum
of two to three weeks for a normal post to reach you,
so we decided it is best using the e-mail,which is
quicker and also to enable us meet up with this
payment quarter for the
year 2002 which has already begun.However, let me
start by introducing myself properly to you. I am
Engr. AGAMEBU ISEKE head of the seven man tenders board
in charge of Contract Awards and Payment Approvals. I
came to know of you in my search for a reliable and
reputable person to handle a very confidential
business transaction which involves the transfer of a
huge sum of money to a foreign account requiring
maximum CONFIDENCE and TRUST. I and my colleagues are
Top Officials of the Ecowas contract Review and Award
Panel. Our duties include Evaluation, Vetting,
Approval for payment of Contract jobs done for the
Ecowas .In order to commence this business we solicit
for your assistance to enable us transfer into your
Account the said funds.The source of this funds is as
follows: In the first quarter of 2001 this committee
was mandated to review and award contracts to the tune
of US$400 million US dollars to a group of five firms
for the supply of foods and medical drugs, hospital
equiptments,computer hardware and soft ware to the
crises countries during the Ecowas peace keeping
mission. During this process my colleagues and I
decided and agreed among ourselves to deliberately
over-inflate the total contract sum from US$400
million to US$425 million United States dollars with
the main intention of sharing the remaining sum of
US$25 miilion amongst ourselves.Ecowas has since last
year approved the sum of US$425 million for us as the
contract sum, and the sum of US$400 million has also
been paid to the foreign companies concerned as
contract entitlements for the various contracts done
by Federal Credit And Commerce Bank, but since the
companies are entiltled to US$400 million dollars
only, we are now left with US$25 million dollars
balance in the account which we intend to pay out
urgently , but by virtue of our positions as civil
servants and members of this panel, we cannot do this
by ourselves, as we are prohibited by the Code of
Conduct Bureau (Civil Service Laws) from opening
and/or operating foreign accounts in our names while
still in Government service, making it impossible for
us to acquire the money in our names right now. I have
therefore, been delegated as a matter of trust and
urgency by my colleagues in the panel to look for an
overseas partner into whose account we would transfer
the sum of US$25 million. Hence this mail to you.My
Colleagues and I have agreed that if you or your
company can act as the beneficiary of this funds on
our behalf, you or your Company will retain 30% of the
total amount (US$25 million), while 65% will be for us
(OFFICIALS) and the remaining 5% will be used in
offsetting all debts/expenses and Taxes incurred both
local and foreign in the cause of this transfer.
Needless to say, the trust reposed on you at this
juncture is enormous. In return we demand your
complete honesty and trust.
NOTE : This transaction will be strictly based on the
following terms and conditions as we have stated
below:(a)Our conviction of your transparent honesty
and diligence.
(b) That you would treat this transaction with utmost
secrecy and confidentiality

(c) That you will not ask for more share or try to sit
on the funds once it is under your custody, or any
form of blackmail to allow run away with this fund.

(d) That upon receipt of the funds you will release
the funds as instructed by us after you have removed
your share of 30% from the total amount before our
arrival in your country as it will take us time to
retire and get our travel documents before our
arrival.This transaction is 100% legal and risk free
and we hope to conclude this transaction seven bank
working days from the date of receipt of the necessary
requirements from you . We are looking forward to
doing business with you and solicit your Total
Confidentiality in this transaction. I give you my
word that you are completely safe in doing business
with us. Transactions like this have been successfully
carried out in the past by most Government executives.
Here in my country there is great economic and
political disarray and thus looting and corruption is
rampant and the order of the day, thus explaining why
you might have heard stories of how money is been
taken out of this country through foreigners
assistance like you, this is because everyone is
making desperate attempts to secure his or her future,
so that when we retire peacefully from active service
we do not languish in poverty.
  Once we receive your interest on this deal,We will
proceed with the process immediately so that your name
will be shortlisted in the next batch of contractors
that will be receiving their contract payment which
the date will be announced by ECOWAS soon and to meet
up with the limited time targetted to conclude this
deal.We will also proceed to procure all the
legal/necessary documents that will confirm you the
true beneficiary of the fund to forestall any hitch in
the course of receiving the fund. While thanking you
for your anticipated co-operation,it is my fervent
hope that you call me on my private Tel No:+234 1 775
54 75 me immediately for more detailed information .
   NB: For Confidentiality Reason and due to the poor
tele-communication system in Nigeria here,Most often
foreign calls could be diverted to the wrong person.So
for you to be very sure you are rightly speaking with
me,it is very important that when you call and ask for
me,the moment i pick up the phone,you should ask me
for the "CODE WORD" and my answer would be " PROGRESS"
before we proceed discussions,But if i do not say
"PROGRESS",that means you are not speaking with me
just disconnect the call and call back till i give you
the "CODE WORD".


God Bless

With Regards.
ENGR: AGAMEBU ISEKE






FROM THE DESK OF:
ENGR.AGAMEBU ISEKE
ECOWAS SECRETARIATE
CONTRACT AWARD UNIT
ABUJA-NIGERIA.
TEL NO:+234 1 775 54 75

    RE-REQUEST FOR PRIVATE BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP.

  It is with my profound dignity that I write you this
very important and highly confidential letter. First,
I must solicit your strictest confidentiality in this
transaction. This is by virtue of its nature as being
utterly CONFIDENTIAL and "TOP SECRET".My partners and
I unanimously agreed to use a total stranger for this
project because of the confidentail nature of this
transaction.
After series of prayers/fasting to find a God fearing
person who will not disappoint us,i was then divinely
inspired and motivated to pick your contact from many
names and list of professional in internet database .
After discussing my view with my colleagues,they were
very much satisfied and decided to contact you
immediately for this mutual business relationship.
Though I know that a transaction of this magnitude
will make any one apprehensive and worried,considering
the fact that we have not met each other before,but I
am assuring you that all will be well at the end of
the day. We have decided to contact you by email due
to the urgency of this transaction,as we have been
reliably informed that it will take at least a minimum
of two to three weeks for a normal post to reach you,
so we decided it is best using the e-mail,which is
quicker and also to enable us meet up with this
payment quarter for the
year 2002 which has already begun.However, let me
start by introducing myself properly to you. I am
Engr. AGAMEBU ISEKE head of the seven man tenders board
in charge of Contract Awards and Payment Approvals. I
came to know of you in my search for a reliable and
reputable person to handle a very confidential
business transaction which involves the transfer of a
huge sum of money to a foreign account requiring
maximum CONFIDENCE and TRUST. I and my colleagues are
Top Officials of the Ecowas contract Review and Award
Panel. Our duties include Evaluation, Vetting,
Approval for payment of Contract jobs done for the
Ecowas .In order to commence this business we solicit
for your assistance to enable us transfer into your
Account the said funds.The source of this funds is as
follows: In the first quarter of 2001 this committee
was mandated to review and award contracts to the tune
of US$400 million US dollars to a group of five firms
for the supply of foods and medical drugs, hospital
equiptments,computer hardware and soft ware to the
crises countries during the Ecowas peace keeping
mission. During this process my colleagues and I
decided and agreed among ourselves to deliberately
over-inflate the total contract sum from US$400
million to US$425 million United States dollars with
the main intention of sharing the remaining sum of
US$25 miilion amongst ourselves.Ecowas has since last
year approved the sum of US$425 million for us as the
contract sum, and the sum of US$400 million has also
been paid to the foreign companies concerned as
contract entitlements for the various contracts done
by Federal Credit And Commerce Bank, but since the
companies are entiltled to US$400 million dollars
only, we are now left with US$25 million dollars
balance in the account which we intend to pay out
urgently , but by virtue of our positions as civil
servants and members of this panel, we cannot do this
by ourselves, as we are prohibited by the Code of
Conduct Bureau (Civil Service Laws) from opening
and/or operating foreign accounts in our names while
still in Government service, making it impossible for
us to acquire the money in our names right now. I have
therefore, been delegated as a matter of trust and
urgency by my colleagues in the panel to look for an
overseas partner into whose account we would transfer
the sum of US$25 million. Hence this mail to you.My
Colleagues and I have agreed that if you or your
company can act as the beneficiary of this funds on
our behalf, you or your Company will retain 30% of the
total amount (US$25 million), while 65% will be for us
(OFFICIALS) and the remaining 5% will be used in
offsetting all debts/expenses and Taxes incurred both
local and foreign in the cause of this transfer.
Needless to say, the trust reposed on you at this
juncture is enormous. In return we demand your
complete honesty and trust.
NOTE : This transaction will be strictly based on the
following terms and conditions as we have stated
below:(a)Our conviction of your transparent honesty
and diligence.
(b) That you would treat this transaction with utmost
secrecy and confidentiality

(c) That you will not ask for more share or try to sit
on the funds once it is under your custody, or any
form of blackmail to allow run away with this fund.

(d) That upon receipt of the funds you will release
the funds as instructed by us after you have removed
your share of 30% from the total amount before our
arrival in your country as it will take us time to
retire and get our travel documents before our
arrival.This transaction is 100% legal and risk free
and we hope to conclude this transaction seven bank
working days from the date of receipt of the necessary
requirements from you . We are looking forward to
doing business with you and solicit your Total
Confidentiality in this transaction. I give you my
word that you are completely safe in doing business
with us. Transactions like this have been successfully
carried out in the past by most Government executives.
Here in my country there is great economic and
political disarray and thus looting and corruption is
rampant and the order of the day, thus explaining why
you might have heard stories of how money is been
taken out of this country through foreigners
assistance like you, this is because everyone is
making desperate attempts to secure his or her future,
so that when we retire peacefully from active service
we do not languish in poverty.
  Once we receive your interest on this deal,We will
proceed with the process immediately so that your name
will be shortlisted in the next batch of contractors
that will be receiving their contract payment which
the date will be announced by ECOWAS soon and to meet
up with the limited time targetted to conclude this
deal.We will also proceed to procure all the
legal/necessary documents that will confirm you the
true beneficiary of the fund to forestall any hitch in
the course of receiving the fund. While thanking you
for your anticipated co-operation,it is my fervent
hope that you call me on my private Tel No:+234 1 775
54 75 me immediately for more detailed information .
   NB: For Confidentiality Reason and due to the poor
tele-communication system in Nigeria here,Most often
foreign calls could be diverted to the wrong person.So
for you to be very sure you are rightly speaking with
me,it is very important that when you call and ask for
me,the moment i pick up the phone,you should ask me
for the "CODE WORD" and my answer would be " PROGRESS"
before we proceed discussions,But if i do not say
"PROGRESS",that means you are not speaking with me
just disconnect the call and call back till i give you
the "CODE WORD".


God Bless

With Regards.
ENGR: AGAMEBU ISEKE






FROM THE DESK OF:
ENGR.AGAMEBU ISEKE
ECOWAS SECRETARIATE
CONTRACT AWARD UNIT
ABUJA-NIGERIA.
TEL NO:+234 1 775 54 75

    RE-REQUEST FOR PRIVATE BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP.

  It is with my profound dignity that I write you this
very important and highly confidential letter. First,
I must solicit your strictest confidentiality in this
transaction. This is by virtue of its nature as being
utterly CONFIDENTIAL and "TOP SECRET".My partners and
I unanimously agreed to use a total stranger for this
project because of the confidentail nature of this
transaction.
After series of prayers/fasting to find a God fearing
person who will not disappoint us,i was then divinely
inspired and motivated to pick your contact from many
names and list of professional in internet database .
After discussing my view with my colleagues,they were
very much satisfied and decided to contact you
immediately for this mutual business relationship.
Though I know that a transaction of this magnitude
will make any one apprehensive and worried,considering
the fact that we have not met each other before,but I
am assuring you that all will be well at the end of
the day. We have decided to contact you by email due
to the urgency of this transaction,as we have been
reliably informed that it will take at least a minimum
of two to three weeks for a normal post to reach you,
so we decided it is best using the e-mail,which is
quicker and also to enable us meet up with this
payment quarter for the
year 2002 which has already begun.However, let me
start by introducing myself properly to you. I am
Engr. AGAMEBU ISEKE head of the seven man tenders board
in charge of Contract Awards and Payment Approvals. I
came to know of you in my search for a reliable and
reputable person to handle a very confidential
business transaction which involves the transfer of a
huge sum of money to a foreign account requiring
maximum CONFIDENCE and TRUST. I and my colleagues are
Top Officials of the Ecowas contract Review and Award
Panel. Our duties include Evaluation, Vetting,
Approval for payment of Contract jobs done for the
Ecowas .In order to commence this business we solicit
for your assistance to enable us transfer into your
Account the said funds.The source of this funds is as
follows: In the first quarter of 2001 this committee
was mandated to review and award contracts to the tune
of US$400 million US dollars to a group of five firms
for the supply of foods and medical drugs, hospital
equiptments,computer hardware and soft ware to the
crises countries during the Ecowas peace keeping
mission. During this process my colleagues and I
decided and agreed among ourselves to deliberately
over-inflate the total contract sum from US$400
million to US$425 million United States dollars with
the main intention of sharing the remaining sum of
US$25 miilion amongst ourselves.Ecowas has since last
year approved the sum of US$425 million for us as the
contract sum, and the sum of US$400 million has also
been paid to the foreign companies concerned as
contract entitlements for the various contracts done
by Federal Credit And Commerce Bank, but since the
companies are entiltled to US$400 million dollars
only, we are now left with US$25 million dollars
balance in the account which we intend to pay out
urgently , but by virtue of our positions as civil
servants and members of this panel, we cannot do this
by ourselves, as we are prohibited by the Code of
Conduct Bureau (Civil Service Laws) from opening
and/or operating foreign accounts in our names while
still in Government service, making it impossible for
us to acquire the money in our names right now. I have
therefore, been delegated as a matter of trust and
urgency by my colleagues in the panel to look for an
overseas partner into whose account we would transfer
the sum of US$25 million. Hence this mail to you.My
Colleagues and I have agreed that if you or your
company can act as the beneficiary of this funds on
our behalf, you or your Company will retain 30% of the
total amount (US$25 million), while 65% will be for us
(OFFICIALS) and the remaining 5% will be used in
offsetting all debts/expenses and Taxes incurred both
local and foreign in the cause of this transfer.
Needless to say, the trust reposed on you at this
juncture is enormous. In return we demand your
complete honesty and trust.
NOTE : This transaction will be strictly based on the
following terms and conditions as we have stated
below:(a)Our conviction of your transparent honesty
and diligence.
(b) That you would treat this transaction with utmost
secrecy and confidentiality

(c) That you will not ask for more share or try to sit
on the funds once it is under your custody, or any
form of blackmail to allow run away with this fund.

(d) That upon receipt of the funds you will release
the funds as instructed by us after you have removed
your share of 30% from the total amount before our
arrival in your country as it will take us time to
retire and get our travel documents before our
arrival.This transaction is 100% legal and risk free
and we hope to conclude this transaction seven bank
working days from the date of receipt of the necessary
requirements from you . We are looking forward to
doing business with you and solicit your Total
Confidentiality in this transaction. I give you my
word that you are completely safe in doing business
with us. Transactions like this have been successfully
carried out in the past by most Government executives.
Here in my country there is great economic and
political disarray and thus looting and corruption is
rampant and the order of the day, thus explaining why
you might have heard stories of how money is been
taken out of this country through foreigners
assistance like you, this is because everyone is
making desperate attempts to secure his or her future,
so that when we retire peacefully from active service
we do not languish in poverty.
  Once we receive your interest on this deal,We will
proceed with the process immediately so that your name
will be shortlisted in the next batch of contractors
that will be receiving their contract payment which
the date will be announced by ECOWAS soon and to meet
up with the limited time targetted to conclude this
deal.We will also proceed to procure all the
legal/necessary documents that will confirm you the
true beneficiary of the fund to forestall any hitch in
the course of receiving the fund. While thanking you
for your anticipated co-operation,it is my fervent
hope that you call me on my private Tel No:+234 1 775
54 75 me immediately for more detailed information .
   NB: For Confidentiality Reason and due to the poor
tele-communication system in Nigeria here,Most often
foreign calls could be diverted to the wrong person.So
for you to be very sure you are rightly speaking with
me,it is very important that when you call and ask for
me,the moment i pick up the phone,you should ask me
for the "CODE WORD" and my answer would be " PROGRESS"
before we proceed discussions,But if i do not say
"PROGRESS",that means you are not speaking with me
just disconnect the call and call back till i give you
the "CODE WORD".


God Bless

With Regards.
ENGR: AGAMEBU ISEKE




_________________________________________________________________
Get a speedy connection with MSN Broadband.? Join now! 
http://resourcecenter.msn.com/access/plans/freeactivation.asp



