docno="lists-017-6484392"
received="Tue Apr  6 14:01:26 2004"
isoreceived="20040406180126"
sent="Tue, 6 Apr 2004 13:58:36 0400"
isosent="20040406175836"
name="Lorrie Cranor"
email="lorrie@cs.cmu.edu"
subject="Re: AGENDA: 7 April P3P spec call"
id="06A0D9DE-87F4-11D8-9BE1000A95DA3F5A@cs.cmu.edu"
charset="USASCII"
inreplyto="587B055C-8763-11D8-ADFB000A95DA3F5A&#64;cs.cmu.edu"
expires="1"


To: public-p3p-spec<public-p3p-spec@w3.org>


[Forgot to include the time and dial-in details....]

The next P3P specification group conference call will be on
Wednesday, April 7, 2004, 11 am - 12 pm US Eastern. Dial-in
information is available at
http://www.w3.org/P3P/Group/Specification/1.1/meetings.html

On Apr 5, 2004, at 8:42 PM, Lorrie Cranor wrote:

>
> 1. Finish Article 10 issues -- this seems to have slipped through the 
> cracks... I think we more or less resolved these issues on the mailing 
> list, but I don't think we ever officially agreed... so one 
> (hopefully) last time.
>
> a. 
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-p3p-spec/2004Apr/0001.html
> http://www.w3.org/Bugs/Public/show_bug.cgi?id=652
>
> b. 
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-p3p-spec/2004Apr/0002.html
> http://www.w3.org/Bugs/Public/show_bug.cgi?id=653
>
> c. 
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-p3p-spec/2004Apr/0003.html
> http://www.w3.org/Bugs/Public/show_bug.cgi?id=174
>
> d. 
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-p3p-spec/2004Apr/0004.html
> http://www.w3.org/Bugs/Public/show_bug.cgi?id=654
>
>
> 2. primary purpose specification
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-p3p-spec/2004Mar/0035.html
> [Dave please send revised draft]
>
>
> 3. P3P Generic attribute for XML applications
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-p3p-spec/2004Feb/0019.html
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-p3p-spec/2004Mar/0003.html
>
>
> 4. Who should be listed as authors of p3p 1.1?
> http://www.w3.org/Bugs/Public/show_bug.cgi?id=570
>
>
> 5. Publication of next working draft
> Besides from the above, the only other open item I see is the schema 
> stuff that Giles is working on. Am I missing anything else?
>
>
> 6. Schedule next call (April 14?)
>



