docno="lists-008-8512646"
received="Wed Nov  6 23:56:04 2002"
isoreceived="20021107045604"
sent="Wed, 6 Nov 2002 23:55:40 0500 (EST)"
isosent="20021107045540"
name="cbn@myplace.com"
email="cbn@myplace.com"
subject="INQURRY"
id="200211070455.XAA02009@web3.unitedstates.com"
inreplyto="217.146.9.1581020929231921&#64;unitedstates.com"
expires="1"


To:ietf-discuss@w3.org



DEAR
I am contacting you for the first time because my mind tells me you 
will be a trustworthy person want to transfer to overseas account 
($126,000.000.00 USD) One hundred and twenty six million United 
States Dollars) from a Prime Bank in Africa, I want you to quietly 
provide either an existing bank account or to set up a new Bank 
account immediately to receive this money, even an empty account can 
serve to receive this money, as long as you will remain honest to me 
till the end of this important business trusting in you and believing 
in God that you will never let me down either now or in future. I am 
MR. CLAES CLERN ,the Auditor General of one of the prime banks here 
in Africa, during the course of our auditing,I discovered a floating 
fund in an account opened in the bank in 1990 and since 1993 nobody 
has operated on this account again, after going through some old 
files in the records I discovered that the owner of the account died 
without a [heir] hence the money is floating and if I do not remit 
this money out urgently it will be forfeited for nothing. The owner 
of this account is Mr.Gordon G. Scott, a foreigner, and an 
industrialist, and he died since 1993. And no other person knows 
about this account or any thing concerning it, the account has no 
other beneficiary and my investigation proved to me as well that 
Gordon G.Scott until his death was the manager of Diamond Safari 
[pity]. SA. We will start the first transfer with twenty six million 
[$26,000.000] upon successful transaction without any disappointment 
from your side, we shall re-apply for the payment of the remaining 
rest amount to your account. The amount involved is (USD 126 M) One 
hundred and twenty six million United States Dollars only. I want to 
first transfer $26,000.000 [Twenty six million United States Dollar] 
from this money into a safe foreigners account abroad before the 
rest, but I don't know any foreigner, I am only contacting you as a 
foreigner because this money can not be approved to a local person 
here, without valid international foreign passport, but can only be 
approved to any foreigner with valid international passport or 
drivers license and foreign account because the money is in US 
dollars and the former owner of the account Mr. Gordon G. Scott is a 
foreigner too ,and the money can only be approved into a foreign 
account. However, we will sign a binding agreement, to bind us 
together. I got your contact address from the Girl who operates my 
computer, I am revealing this to you with believe in God that you 
will never let me down in this business ,you are the first and the 
only person that I am contacting for this business, so please reply 
urgently so that I will inform you the next step to take urgently. 
Send also your private telephone and fax number including the full 
details of the account to be used for the deposit. I look forward to 
your earliest reply through my private email address ; 
co_abj@yahoo.com 
Yours truly 
MR. CLAES CLERN




Find what you want @ http://www.myplace.com  (:



