docno="lists-023-0674874"
received="Mon Apr 26 09:51:06 2004"
isoreceived="20040426135106"
sent="Mon, 26 Apr 2004 15:47:52 +0200"
isosent="20040426134752"
name="Thierry MICHEL"
email="tmichel@w3.org"
subject="Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 04/08/04"
id="000301c42b95$1336b390$ad02010a@wistiti"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<public-tt@w3.org>



Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 04/08/04

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Mike Dolan (invited expert) [MD]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, scribe) [GF]
  Sean Hayes, Microsoft (SH)
  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]
  David Kirby (BBC) [DK]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]

Regrets

************************************************************************
Agenda
************************************************************************

1. Review formulation of liaison statement to ISO TC1/SC29/WG11.
2. Review of input from Geoff and Chris Lilley on style update.
3. Review of input from [SH] on Roberto Scano comments.
4. Review of input from [DS] on temporal flow behavior.
5. Action Item Review
6. Upcoming F2F Planning

************************************************************************
1. Review liaison statement to ISO TC1/SC29/WG11
************************************************************************

[DS] Finalize statement proposed by [MD]. Provides new input at [1].

[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0026.html

Action: [MD]/[DS] Provide "formal" statement to send to WG11.

************************************************************************
2. Review Style Draft
************************************************************************

[GF] Reviews new SVG examples at [2].

[2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0024.html

[MD] Suggests using presentation embedding but not source embedding;
i.e., use <object type="image/svg+xml" data=""/>.

[GA] Suggests using Goon show script content.

[SH] Has audio CD with three shows, one being "The Disappearing P.M.".
Will send list of shows to email list.

************************************************************************
3. Discuss Input from Roberto Scano [3]
************************************************************************

[3] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Mar/0041.html

[SH] Provides input at [4].

[4] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0023.html

[SH] Suggests problem should be handled at authoring level, not
presentation level.

[SH] Reviewed rubi spec to see if that might provide some solutions, but
thinks there are problems here as well.

[SH] Need roles for different types of rubi. Will work with [DK] to
included features as needed.

************************************************************************
4. Review Input for Fill Scroll Behavior
************************************************************************

[DS] Provides new input at [5].

[5] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0013.html

[DS] Unconvinced that all properties proposed by J. Birch were required.

[GA] Suggests enlisting help of J. Birch to draft SVG examples with
animation of intended effects.

************************************************************************
5. Action Item Review
************************************************************************

[In following review, if no AI status is indicated, the default status
is "remains open; work in progress".]

Action: [SH] Will investigate use of media queries in this context and
report back.

Action: [DS with help of Paul Nelson and Peter Lofting] Write RFC to
register appropriate opentype/truetype font types as MIME media types,
suggest model of "application/font-<font-type-name>", e.g.,
"application/font-truetype".

Action: [GA] Make proposal regarding use of Xlink vocabulary or
"src" attribute.

Action: [GF] Investigate mechanism for cascading
semantics and whether to support cascading on either or both
logical and presentation flowed vocabularies.

Resolution: Adopt cascading semantics from CSS at logical flow layer
only. May need to fine-tune as applicative style system at LF becomes
more concrete.

Closed.

Action: [GA] Draft new requirement on "Integrability"
in general terms that should not impact testing or implementation
requirements.

Action: [GA] incorporate agreed changes into TT-AF-1-0-REQ in
preparation for publishing final W3C Note.

Action: [SH] will review and propose subset of aural parameters
(see R305).

Action: [GA] Add figure showing logical structure anticipated
by requirements.

Action: [GA] Add note to R217 and R219 that shows use of data: URI
scheme.

Action: [SH] to propose subset with extensions for use in CS
Profile.

Action: [GF] investigate syntax for regions vis-a-vis style.

Action: [DK] To write up short paragraph on uses of
role tokens. Suggest removing or adding as he
progresses.

Still in progress. Will make further examples.

Action: [TM] to propose and define standard MD attributes. N.B.
Awaiting further discussion by WG.

Action: [*] Think about standard MD items (and write something
down and send to list so we can think about it too).

Recast above action as New Action: [DK/MD/TM] Formulate
recommendation on specific and general MD features.

Action: [GA] Need to start planning for September meeting in Japan!

Action: [SH] to draft standard ready text for subset of xquery.

Action: [DS] Based on email of 01/14, integrate with fillBehavior as
described in example.

Action: [*] For module owners, start developing test suite documents
that have feature tests in all necesary context, and no superfluous
context. Follow-on for primary spec editor will be to incorporate
fragments from these cases, but that will be subsequent to publishing
first internal draft of integrated spec.

Action: [MD]/[DS] Draft liaison input by next Thursday (04/08/04).

Closed.

Action: [GA] Send as liaison input to MPEG once accepted by group.

Action: [SH] To provide input on alternative content when style
is unrealizable to list by next telecon. See [4].

Closed.

************************************************************************
6. Next Meetings
************************************************************************

Normal weekly telecon schedule (Noon Eastern Time).

May 10-12 F2F Amsterdam (CWI); start 10:30AM on 10th, end 1800h on 12th
Jun 22-24 F2F Mt View, CA (Microsoft) - Confirmed; [TM] to announce.

[GA] Regrets for 04/22; may not have telecon.
[DS] May be at NAB.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

Resolution: Adopt cascading semantics from CSS at logical flow layer
only. May need to fine-tune as applicative style system at LF becomes
more concrete.

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [SH] Will investigate use of media queries in this context and
report back.

Action: [DS with help of Paul Nelson and Peter Lofting] Write RFC to
register appropriate opentype/truetype font types as MIME media types,
suggest model of "application/font-<font-type-name>", e.g.,
"application/font-truetype".

Action: [GA] Make proposal regarding use of Xlink vocabulary or
"src" attribute.

Action: [GA] Draft new requirement on "Integrability"
in general terms that should not impact testing or implementation
requirements.

Action: [GA] incorporate agreed changes into TT-AF-1-0-REQ in
preparation for publishing final W3C Note.

Action: [SH] will review and propose subset of aural parameters
(see R305).

Action: [GA] Add figure showing logical structure anticipated
by requirements.

Action: [GA] Add note to R217 and R219 that shows use of data: URI
scheme.

Action: [SH] to propose subset with extensions for use in CS
Profile.

Action: [GF] investigate syntax for regions vis-a-vis style.

Action: [DK] To write up short paragraph on uses of
role tokens. Suggest removing or adding as he
progresses.

Action: [TM] to propose and define standard MD attributes. N.B.
Awaiting further discussion by WG.

Action: [DK/MD/TM] Formulate recommendation on specific and general
MD features.

Action: [GA] Need to start planning for September meeting in Japan!

Action: [SH] to draft standard ready text for subset of xquery.

Action: [DS] Based on email of 01/14, integrate with fillBehavior as
described in example.

Action: [*] For module owners, start developing test suite documents
that have feature tests in all necesary context, and no superfluous
context. Follow-on for primary spec editor will be to incorporate
fragments from these cases, but that will be subsequent to publishing
first internal draft of integrated spec.

Action: [GA] Send as liaison input to MPEG once accepted by group.

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

Issue: Whether to use XLink vocabulary, e.g., as used consistently by
SVG, or use "src" attribute as apparently will be done in XHTML2?

Issue: Probably want to permit in logical content mode the selection
of content based on generic XML features of non-TT namespace
descriptive markup, e.g., for applying style and timing semantics, in
which case an appropriate TT container element shall be implied based
on nearest ancestor TT namespace element.

Issue: Need to think about cascading semantics; how to express, how to
apply, etc. Possibly use CSS semantics here as well.

Issue (2004-03-05): Whether to allow block as immediate child of
inline? N.B. XSL-FO does allow this. [GA] showed example of renmoji
(horizontal block in vertical Japanese lines).

*** URIs ***

[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0026.html
[2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0024.html
[3] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Mar/0041.html
[4] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0023.html
[5] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0013.html

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



Thierry MICHEL
W3C/ERCIM



