docno="lists-091-2885804"
received="Wed Jan 10 16:05:15 2001"
isoreceived="20010110210515"
sent="Wed, 10 Jan 2001 16:05:11 -0500"
isosent="20010110210511"
name="moreinfo9998@aol.com"
email="moreinfo9998@aol.com"
subject="Re: I saw your web site"
id="200101102105.QAA26268@tux.w3.org"
inreplyto="I saw your web site"
expires="-1"


To:moreinfo9998@aol.com


Dear Web Merchant,

My company has taken notice of your on-line presence and
wanted to bring a few things to your attention.

Over the past several years, we have spoken with hundreds of
online merchants like you, who unfortunately are not happy.
The reason for their unhappiness varies but all seem to have
common issues.

Here are a few examples of some problem issues:

-  I can?t get my Web site updated with new material.

-  My Web site was supposed to be completed within 2 wks,
it's been over 2 mnths.

-  changes made to my Web site, are not what I requested and
take another month to get them right.

-  I can?t get any technical support for my growing Internet
needs.

-  Nobody returns my calls, regarding Web site issues and
they can?t answer the questions I have.

-  My monthly maintenance seems a little expensive for the
services I receive.

-  I want my own domain name but it is too expensive.

-  My Web site take a long time to download compared to
other sites.

Do you and your company have any of these issues?  If so,
you may want to look into finding another Web site
development and hosting company.  My company has helped
hundreds of companies with the same problems and they still
can?t believe the difference! We specialize in Internet
solutions and strategies.

That?s all.

Your company has an objective when it comes to the Internet
and we have a solution.

Here are a few things one can expect from our company.

-  Professional Web site appearance and layout. -  Excellent
technical support. -  Super fast Internet connection and
download speeds. -  Some of the most competitive pricing in
the nation! -  Super fast Web site updates. -  Advanced
level services including JAVA, CGI, ActiveX, Cold Fusion,
and more!

If any of these areas interest you and you would like to
find out more about our company, we would like to welcome
you to call 1 888-585-8658 or Print the Form and Fax back to
1-800-243-0358.  To receive more info about our services
reply to moreinfo9998@aol.com

[    ]  Web Site Redesign  [    ] Generate Traffic to your
Web Site

[    ]  Web Site Marketing [    ] Premium Search Engine
Submission

[    ]  Web Site Design    [    ]  Add E-commerce to an
existing Web site

[    ]  Targeted email campaign by Industry, Category, or
SIC Codes

[    ]  Low Cost Hosting starting at 9.95

[    ]  TOP 10 Search Engine Placement

COMPANY NAME: ______________________________________

CONTACT:  ___________________________________________

EMAIL:  ______________________________________________

PHONE:  ___________________   FAX:  ___________________

DOMAIN NAME:  _______________________________________

This email is being sent in compliance with Senate bill
1618,Title 3, Section 301. Per Section 301, Paragraph (a)(2)
(c)of S.1618,
http://rs9.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/D?c106:2:./temp/~c106JIzSIO
:: Further transmissions to you by the sender of this email
may be stopped at no cost to you by sending a reply to this
email address with the word "remove" in the subject line.



