docno="lists-068-2396108"
received="Tue Dec  5 22:36:04 2000"
isoreceived="20001206033604"
sent="Wed, 6 Dec 2000 14:35:59 +1100 (EST)"
isosent="20001206033559"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
subject="Agenda"
id="Pine.SOL.4.10.10012061421230.11633-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


Thursday, 7 December, 2100 UTC (4 PM U.S. Eastern, 10 PM France, 8 AM
Friday Eastern Australia), +1-617-252-1038:

Agenda
The main agenda item this week is to discuss the handling of "user agent
capabilities" in the guidelines and/or techniques. Should we decide, and
if so on what criteria, whether (1) particular access-related features of
user agents have been implemented to the extent that content developers
need no longer apply compensatory "work-around" techniques; and (2)
whether particular specifications, technologies or features have been
sufficiently implemented by user agents and/or adaptive technologies,
thereby allowing content based upon them to be provided, without
excluding, de facto, persons with disabilities? These two issues are
closely related and, indeed, may be regarded as two perspectives from
which to consider a single problem. Charles McCathieNevile has proposed
two potential solutions: (1) to specify general criteria against which to
assess the extent to which a given technology or feature has been
implemented, for example "there must exist freely available
implementations on all widely used operating systems"; or (2) to examine
each web-related technology separately and to make a pragmatic decision
with respect to it (which would, undoubtedly, need to be revised from time
to time as the technology evolved).

If time permits, we may also discuss checkpoint 6.3 (which was not fully
treated at least week's meeting) and any other issues that participants
would like to raise.



