docno="lists-033-3980620"
received="Sat Oct 26 09:09:18 2002"
isoreceived="20021026130918"
sent="Sat, 26 Oct 2002 14:09:02 -0700"
isosent="20021026210902"
name="Dr. ROTIMI ADEMOLA."
email="rotademola2@netscape.net"
subject="request for mutual project relationship"
id="200210261309.JAA05999@tux.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org


Dr. ROTIMI ADEMOLA
tel:234 1 7598296
fax:234 1 7596976

REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

I am Dr. ROTIMI ADEMOLA the chairman of contract award
and review committee set up by the federal government
of Nigeria under the new civilian dispensation to
award new contracts and review existing ones.

I came to know of you in my search for a reliable and
Reputable person to handle a very confidential
transaction, which involves the transfer of a huge sum
of money to a foreign account. There were series of
contracts executed by a consortium of multinationals
in the oil industry in favour of N.N.P.C. the original
value of these contracts were deliberately over
invoiced to the sum of Usd$25,000,000.00 (twenty five
million united state Dollars).

This amount has now been approved and is now ready to
be transferred being that the companies that actually
executed these contracts have been fully paid and the
projects officially commissioned. Consequently, my
colleagues and I are willing to transfer the total
amount to your account for subsequent disbursement,
since we as civil servants are prohibited by the code
of conduct bureau (civil Service law) from operating
and/or opening foreign accounts in our names. Needless
to say, the trust reposed on you at this juncture is
enormous, in return, we have agreed to offer you 20%
of the transferred sum, while 10% shall be set aside
for Incidental expenses (internal and external)
between both parties in the course of the transaction
you will be mandated to remit the balance to other
accounts in due course.

Modalities have been worked out at the highest level
of the ministry of finance and the central bank of
Nigeria for the immediate transfer of the funds within
14 working days subject to your satisfaction of the
above stated terms. our assurance is that your role is
Risk free and to accord this transaction the legality
It deserves and for mutual security of the funds the
whole approval procedures will officially and legally
processed with your name or the name of any company
you may nominate as the bonafide beneficiary. Once
more I want you to understand that having put in over
twenty five years in the civil service of my country,
I am averse to having my image and career dented. This
matter should therefore be treated with utmost secrecy
and urgency it deserves. Please you should signify
your intention to assist by sending me a fax on my
confidential fax number ( 234 1 7596976 ) so that I
can brief you further. I want to assure you that this
business proposal is 100% risk free as we have done
our homework properly. I quite believe that you will
protect our interest by taking this deal strictly
confidential, as we are still in government service,
which we intend to retire from. Kindly expedite action
as we are behind schedule to enable us include this
transfer in the first batch which would constitute the
third quarter payments for the 2002 financial year.

Thanks and God bless.

Dr. ROTIMI ADEMOLA.



