docno="lists-094-6859704"
received="Thu Apr 20 10:52:42 2000"
isoreceived="20000420145242"
sent="Thu, 20 Apr 2000 07:52:06 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20000420145206"
name="Fox One"
email="rockman66_1999@yahoo.com"
subject="HTTP Redirect bug"
id="20000420145206.7459.qmail@web4307.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:www-amaya@w3.org


Amaya 3.1 doesn't seem to process HTTP redirect 
headers properly.

When a user logs into Yahoo! Mail, her browser will
receive 3 redirect messages. This might be for
security or something. 

Netscape 3.04 has no problem with this. It interprets
the messages and goes to the new locations, eventually
winding up in the user's account. 

But Amaya seems to have problems. It displays a dialog
box asking the user to confirm each redirect. That's
okay, but even if the user does confirm each redirect,

Amaya doesn't go to the new pages. 

For Yahoo! Mail, this means that the user allways gets
the "Login" page no matter how many times she's input
her name and password and clicked on the "Sign In"
button. 

My personal machine is running a web server for
testing 
purposes. I've been able to verify the following
things:

* the cgi-scripts are creating the correct "Location:
..." header lines in their output

* the server is creating HTTP redirect headers and
sending them back to the browser

* the browser "Amaya" is unable to interpret these
requests


All of my CGI forms that don't use "Location: ..."
header lines work properly with both Netscape 3.04 
and Amaya 3.1.

All of my CGI forms that DO use "Location:..." work
with Netscape and DO NOT work with Amaya. 



__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Send online invitations with Yahoo! Invites.
http://invites.yahoo.com



