docno="lists-022-16735248"
received="Fri Mar 14 16:32:28 2003"
isoreceived="20030314213228"
sent="Fri, 14 Mar 2003 16:32:34 -0500"
isosent="20030314213234"
name="Glenn A. Adams"
email="glenn@xfsi.com"
subject="Minutes - 02/27/03 Telecon"
id="7249D02C4D2DFD4D80F2E040E8CAF37C03B83E@longxuyen.xfsi.com"
charset="utf-8"
expires="-1"


To:"W3C TT Public"<public-tt@w3.org>



Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 02/27/03

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Markus Gylling (Daisy) [MG]
  Gerry Field (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF2]
  Brad Botkin (WGBH/NCAM) [BB]
  Markku Hakkinen (JSRPD) [MH]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF1]
  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]

Regrets

  George Kerscher (Daisy) [GK]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]

Absent

  Mike Dolan (invited expert) [MD]
  Patrick Schmitz (Ludicrum, Invited Expert) [PS]

************************************************************************
Agenda
************************************************************************

1. Action Item Review
2. F2F Agenda Planning

************************************************************************
1. Action Items Review
************************************************************************

Action: [GA] Post to publicTT the resolution on authoring exchange
priority. Before the next conference call.

Done.

Action: [MD] To create a description of posted image (PDF) document.

Done.

Action: [*] Contact potential participants or send contact info to [GA].

Closed. [GA] discussing with David Kirby at BBC their possible
participation. [GA] Encourages other members to continue recruitment.

Action: [*] Submit proposals on categories: [GA] text, animation; [EH]
timing; [MG]/[MH] semantics; [GF2] style; [MD] metadata.

Work in Progress. [GF1] will send style reqs later today. [EH] will
work on over weekend. [MG]/[MH] will have semantic markup by Monday.

Action: [TM] Arrange phone for F2F for specific call-ins.

Done. [GF1] can call in for style discussion.

Action: [GA] Will summarize his thinking on timing issues to public
reflector to try to obtain closure.

Work in progress.

Action: [GA]/[TM] Check on process reqs for publishing TT REQ document.

Work in progress.

Action: [GA] Send reminder to member reflector requesting F2F agenda
items.

Done.

************************************************************************
2. Agenda planning for F2F
************************************************************************

1. Joint meeting with SVG WG.
2. Joing meeting with MMI WG.
3. Review specific proposals for features requirements by category.
4. Plan structure and organization of the requirements document.
5. Discuss schedule and process for the requirements document.
6. Develop initial plan for the specification.

[BB] Asks about whether we are defining core or peripheral.

************************************************************************
ADJOURNS at 1217h Eastern Time (US)
************************************************************************

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

None.

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [*] Submit proposals on categories: [GA] text, animation; [EH]
timing; [MG]/[MH] semantics; [GF2] style; [MD] metadata.

Action: [GA] Will summarize his thinking on timing issues to public
reflector to try to obtain closure.

Action: [GA]/[TM] Check on process reqs for publishing TT REQ document.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



