docno="lists-022-1793281"
received="Fri Jun  4 02:37:44 2004"
isoreceived="20040604063744"
sent="Thu, 3 Jun 2004 23:36:21 -0700"
isosent="20040604063621"
name="Natasha Noy"
email="noy@SMI.Stanford.EDU"
subject="[OEP] Classes as values &ndash;&ndash; proposed draft for public release"
id="7E426175-B5F1-11D8-9AA9-000A958B5C28@smi.stanford.edu"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"


To: swbp<public-swbp-wg@w3.org>


The new version of the classes as values note is at

http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-archive/2004Jun/att-0007/ 
ClassesAsValues-v6.html

This version integrates additions from Brian McBride (thank you!) in  
the introduction to present the note in the more general SW tone. It  
also addresses other comments on the list (most notably extensive  
comments from Pat Hayes and Alan Rector -- thanks!), modulo open issues  
listed at the beginning of the note. Among other things, I tried to add  
a bit more context to the discussion in terms of how are the choices  
affected by whether or not you are importing the annotations or  
creating your own, etc. -- basically, the SW set-up. Thanks to Brian  
for pushing in that direction.

There are a number of open issues (some quite serious). If I forgot to  
list some of the open issues and unresolved discussion, I apologize,  
and please bring it up again. We'll need to do something about the open  
issues eventually. However, if it looks likely that we can reach some  
sort of consensus/resolution on the first two open issues quickly  
(recommending or not recommending a single approach and what example to  
use instead of subject), it would make sense to hold off the public  
release until then. Otherwise, at this point, given that we want to  
have something published, perhaps we could discuss at the next telecon  
whether to put it on the web site for public comment.

Natasha



