docno="lists-026-10801063"
received="Sun Feb 15 10:26:10 2004"
isoreceived="20040215152610"
sent="Sun, 15 Feb 2004 08:26:47 -0800"
isosent="20040215162647"
name="Rex Brooks"
email="rexb@starbourne.com"
subject="Re: Fwd: UDDI and sematics"
id="a06020410bc553a78c2e9@[69.3.93.121]"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="402F6F76.7040609&#64;sun.com"
expires="-1"


To:"Monica J. Martin"<Monica.Martin@Sun.COM>, Steve Ross-Talbot<steve@enigmatec.net>
Cc:"WS Choreography (E-mail)"<public-ws-chor@w3.org>,creed@opengis.org


Hi All,

If location is going to be addressed within W3C choreography and 
OASIS UDDI, I believe that it would be wise to consult and liaise 
with both the OGC, Open GIS Consortium, whose Executive Director, 
Carl Reed, I am copying and the OASIS Emergency Management GIS 
Subcommittee, of which he is also the chair. I wholeheartedly 
recommend including ebXML Reg/Rep in exploring an inclusive 
harmonization of semantics wrt Web Services. As co-chair of the OASIS 
HumanMarkup  TC, and a member of EM GIS SC, and WSRP TC respectively, 
I try to keep current with these work areas.

I have also looked at the Requirement document and this looks a bit 
more complicated than necessary, especially for a requirements 
document. Also, I'm not sure a new rdf:Bag for extended metadata is 
required. If we are at the requirements gathering phase, then I would 
ask the inference engine makers what they need, unless that is what 
you all have already done. Of course, I also thought you were the 
inference engine makers, and the document appears to bely that 
assumption.

Ciao,
Rex

At 6:09 AM -0700 2/15/04, Monica J. Martin wrote:
>>SRT: All:
>>
>>Given the request for review and given that choreographies may be 
>>subject to something similar for location it is a good idea if we 
>>start  the process of review and requirements gathering for this 
>>piece of work  and then get back to them in a timely fashion.
>
>mm1: Steve, these requirements should be generic as Reg/Rep also 
>handles web services and had a Semantic Content Management subgroup. 
>Suggest we distribute to both groups. Kathryn Breininger is the 
>OASIS co-chair (kathryn.r.breininger@boeing.com) and Farrukh Najmi, 
>the technical lead (farrukh.najmi@sun.com).
>
>Thanks.
>
>>>Resent-From: public-sws-ig@w3.org
>>>From: Max Voskob <max.voskob@paradise.net.nz>
>>>Date: 6 February 2004 03:02:05 GMT
>>>To: public-sws-ig@w3.org, www-rdf-interest@w3.org, 
>>>semanticweb@yahoogroups.com
>>>Subject: UDDI and sematics
>>>
>>>Hi all,
>>>
>>>As some of you may be aware, UDDI Technical Committee is 
>>>considering  to add some semantic capabilities in the next version.
>>>
>>>I would invite a wider community to review our attempts.
>>>
>>>http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/5337/uddi-spec-tc- 
>>>req11-14-semantics-20040205.doc
>>>http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/5322/uddi-spec-tc- 
>>>taxonomies-discussion-20040205.doc
>>>
>>>Your feedback is very welcome. Feel free to say that we are on a 
>>>wrong  track or that the author had no clue what he was talking 
>>>about in that  document.


-- 
Rex Brooks
GeoAddress: 1361-A Addison, Berkeley, CA, 94702 USA, Earth
W3Address: http://www.starbourne.com
Email: rexb@starbourne.com
Tel: 510-849-2309
Fax: By Request



