docno="lists-002-7388534"
received="Tue Apr  8 04:32:18 2003"
isoreceived="20030408083218"
sent="Tue, 08 Apr 2003 08:32:11 +0000"
isosent="20030408083211"
name="Surf In"
email="surf_in1@hotmail.com"
subject="Learn how to design business cardsHow to prospect creatively with business cards"
id="F710D9MhJLUNaQg3Qv40000fd4b@hotmail.com"
expires="-1"

To:html-tidy@w3.org



Business Card Design, Printing and Marketing Tips: Free guide! , create a 
business card with software or templates, order business cards, find unusual 
cards and market creatively with How to design business cards, what content 
to include. . CD Business Card rom presentation packaging replication cd 
business cards, Business Cards. #1 Cd Business Card is a business card cd 
rom presentation and duplication company. Why you need a CD business card



http://www.geocities.com/emailpacket9/articlebusinesscard.htm



business card, free business card, business card holder, business credit 
card, cd business card, business christmas card, business card template, 
business card design, business card software, business card case, business 
card printing, business holiday card, small business credit card, business 
greeting card, business card scanner, cd rom business card, free business 
card template, free business card software, free printable business card, 
business card maker, make a business card, online business card, create 
business card, business card sample, business thank you card, color business 
card, making business card, cd business card replication, make your own 
business card, cheap business card, business card program, business 
thanksgiving card, business post card, print business card, business card 
cdr, plastic business card, full color business card, business card reader, 
business card designer, free business card design, business card printer, 
create free business card, business card clip art, business card logo, 
business card cds, digital business card, free online business card, 
business card magnet, make business card free, printable business card, 
business sympathy card, business card designer plus, business card free 
ware, leather business card holder, business card creator, birthday card for 
business, cd r business card, picture business card, print free business 
card, free business card program, custom business card, free business card 
downloads, business card paper , business card calendar, magnetic business 
card, creating business card, avery business card, photo business card, free 
business card download, business card example, business card graphic, print 
your own business card, business card download, visual business card, real 
estate business card, business card downloads, personalized business holiday 
card, anniversary card business, electronic business card, design your own 
business card, business card tomorrow, cd business card sleeve, e business 
card, business card cd rom replication, cd business card wallet, get well 
card for business, business card size, art business card cd, create your own 
business card, microsoft publisher business card, silver business card 
holder, humorous christmas card for business, advanta business card, 
business card replication, business visa card, business card idea, silver 
business card case, business card share ware, business holiday greeting 
card, order business card


http://www.geocities.com/emailpacket9/articlebusinesscard.htm





_________________________________________________________________
Download the latest MSN Messenger http://messenger.msn.com.my



