docno="lists-070-8070284"
received="Thu Sep 12 11:25:27 2002"
isoreceived="20020912152527"
sent="Thu, 12 Sep 2002 10:25:07 -0500"
isosent="20020912152507"
name="Lee Roberts"
email="leeroberts@roserockdesign.com"
subject="RE: 1.2: proposed rewording"
id="NFBBJHFEOLAGEICMIMBPGEGOCIAA.leeroberts@roserockdesign.com"
charset="Windows-1252"
inreplyto="002001c25a18$b95a4110$096fa8c0&#64;GV6101"
expires="-1"

To:<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


1.2: proposed rewordingThis is more of a comment
toward the audio description.  On many Public
Broadcast shows the audio track for the the main
content is blended with a softer voice describing
the scene and actions in the video portion.  That
then takes two tracks and then mixed into one
track.  It also gives the narrator the opportunity
to hear the content audio and watch at the same
time.

This concept has been working rather well for a
few years now.  Perhaps this is something we
should consider instead of "blank" space in the
audio track.

Lee



 -----Original Message-----
From: w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org
[mailto:w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org]On Behalf Of
Gregg Vanderheiden
Sent: Wednesday, September 11, 2002 11:56 PM
To: 'john_slatin'; w3c-wai-gl@w3.org
Subject: RE: 1.2: proposed rewording


  I like this ?but we can't leave the limits out
of the checkpoint and just put them in a note.



  Hmmm



  Maybe?.something like this. (Edits marked in
curly brackets.)



  1.      an audio description is provided of all
significant visual information in scenes, actions
and events that cannot be perceived from the sound
track alone {to the extent possible given sound
track constraints}.

  Note: When adding audio description to existing
materials, the amount of information conveyed
through audio description is constrained by the
{amount of blank space available in} existing
audio track.  It may also be impossible or
inappropriate to freeze the audio/visual program
to insert additional auditory description.


  Gregg

  ------------------------------------
  Gregg Vanderheiden Ph.D.
  Ind Engr - Biomed - Trace, Univ of Wis
  gv@trace.wisc.edu



  -----Original Message-----
  From: w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org
[mailto:w3c-wai-gl-request@w3.org] On Behalf Of
john_slatin
  Sent: Thursday, September 05, 2002 2:25 PM
  To: w3c-wai-gl@w3.org
  Subject: 1.2: proposed rewording



  Current wording for checkpoint 1.2, success
criterion 1, minimum level:
  1. an audio description is provided of all
visual information in scenes, actions and events
(that can't be perceived from the sound track).

  * The audio description should include all
significant visual information in scenes, actions
and events (that can't be perceived from the sound
track) to

  the extent possible given the constraints posed
by the existing audio track (and constraints on
freezing the audio/visual program to insert
additional

  auditory description).

  Proposed wording

  1.      an audio description is provided of all
significant visual information in scenes, actions
and events that cannot be perceived from the sound
track alone.

  Note: When adding audio description to existing
materials, the amount of information conveyed
through audio description is constrained by the
existing audio track.  It may also be impossible
or inappropriate to freeze the audio/visual
program to insert additional auditory description.

  Comment:
  I have moved the word "significant" from the
first line of the bulleted item into the success
criterion itself, then deleted the first part of
the bulleted item since it was nearly identical to
the success criterion.  I've also tried to clarify
what we say about the constraints on audio
description, by (a) noting that this note applies
to audio description *added to existing material*
(i.e., material that doesn't make room for audio
description in the original script); I also broke
up the sentence and got rid of the parenthetical
notes.  It's my hope that the result is more
closer to the kind of practice we're proposing for
4.1.

  On the other hand, I may have omitted or
obscured something essential here...

  John



  John Slatin, Ph.D.
  Director, Institute for Technology & Learning
  University of Texas at Austin
  FAC 248C, Mail code G9600
  Austin, TX 78712
  ph 512-495-4288, f 512-495-4524
  email jslatin@mail.utexas.edu
  web http://www.ital.utexas.edu



