docno="lists-099-12336930"
received="Tue Jan 20 01:48:55 2004"
isoreceived="20040120064855"
sent="Tue, 20 Jan 2004 08:45:18 -0500"
isosent="20040120134518"
name="Greg Elin"
email="greg@fotonotes.net"
subject="Re: [w3photo] Meetings about image vocabulary/combining vocabs"
id="E22AFE58-4B4E-11D8-8CD9-000393B64216@fotonotes.net"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="[w3photo] Meetings about image vocabulary/combining vocabs"
expires="-1"

To:semantic-photolist@unitboy.com



From: Fotonotes <info@fotonotes.net>
Date: Tue Jan 20, 2004  8:43:51  AM America/New_York
To:
Subject:

It would be better for me if we could have the meeting regarding parts 
of images on Wed and discuss the sample RDF today at 1600 GMT.

I am in some meetings today and don't know if I can make the 1600 GMT.  
If that is the best for image discussion...go for it.

I'd like to suggest as strongly as possible that we make decisions for 
a first cut at things by Wed/Thursday.  This first cut will be just 
that...what we use to assemble a first iteration of the repository. I 
think the elements of this first cut are:

-  100+ images or so from our own collections
- one CC license
- Fotonotes interface to annotate parts with revised fields (3-4) to 
enter some structured information
- An advanced interface for adding RDF (etc) information to the image 
overall
- AKTive space viewing for browsing all images
- Jim Hendler's stuff as the first "alternative" interface.

I see this first cut lasting between 2 and 4 weeks.  So we can all live 
with it a bit and then see what we need to change/improve.

But let's pull together a "first draft" version of everything this 
week. That gives us until Feb 5 to play with before having the 
repository live.

(This project is going great, everyone! Thanks!)

best,

Greg


On Monday, January 19, 2004, at 12:13  PM, Libby Miller wrote:
>
> How about a meeting tomorrow about parts of images (1) and one on
> Wednesday to decide on a sample piece of RDF (2)?
>
> I suggest 1600 GMT for both.
>
> This could change - please let me know (offlist?) if you can't make it
> and you want to be there, and we'll try and come to some sort of
> compromise. Alternatively, if you have a strong view and can't make
> either meeting, send a message here describing your position on either 
> topic.
>
> I think there will be much more discussion in the future about how best
> to describe parts of images in the RDF community, so tomorrow's meeting
> would only be a discussion with a view to setting out a proposal for
> this project to use.
>
> Libby

==================================
This is the TEMPORARY discussion list for the W3 Semantic-Photo History
Project. For questions, contact greg@fotonotes.net.

Subscribe Instructions
To:   semantic-photolist-request@unitboy.com
Body: subscribe

Unsubscribe Instructions
To:   semantic-photolist-request@unitboy.com
Body: unsubscribe

Help
To:   semantic-photolist-request@unitboy.com
Body: help



