docno="lists-006-12578198"
received="Tue Sep  4 16:05:30 2001"
isoreceived="20010904200530"
sent="Tue, 4 Sep 2001 13:05:29 -0700"
isosent="20010904200529"
name="John Hall"
email="johnhall@evergo.net"
subject="REPORTS"
id="002301c1357c$f2274040$0300a8c0@xythosjohnhall"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="3906C56A7BD1F54593344C05BD1374B103F8AB99&#64;SUS-MA1IT01"
expires="-1"

To:"'Clemm, Geoff'"<gclemm@rational.com>,"'DeltaV'"<ietf-dav-versioning@w3.org>



I've been on vacation, but I've tried to keep up.

In version #17 the expand-property report has been moved from an
optional report (Section 15 of version #16) to a SHOULD implement in
3.8.

I object to it being listed there, and I recall no discussion let alone
a consensus to moving it from section 15.  Outlook does not find
'expand-property' listed in any discussion of this type in my folder
dedicated to DeltaV messages.  As an optional report, I did not pay any
attention to it.  The nesting feature (properties within properties)
makes this a very difficult and annoying feature to implement or use
IMHO.

====================

The version-tree report also seems to be defined differently (in 16 as
well as 17) than I thought.  I can implement it that way (fix my
implementation), but it seems more limited that it should be.

For example, I see no reason to redirect a version-tree report to the
checked-out version of a VCR.  It makes more sense to print the
following information, if the target is a VCR:

1. A listing for the VCR (properties can be different than for a
version)
Followed by a listing for each version in the VCR (starting with the
latest version and continuing on down).

As currently defined, it takes 2 calls to get all the properties you
want on all the versions of a file.  One to pick up any properties on
the VCR including the location of the VHR and the other to pick up
additional properties on the file versions.

Acutally, I'd far prefer the following definition for version 3.7:

The DAV:version-tree report describes the requested properties of all
the versions in the version history of a version.  If the report is
requested for a version-controlled resource, then the requested
properties of the version-controlled resource are supplied in addition
to the requested properties for all the versions in the version history
of the version.

A server MAY support a depth value other than 0.  If so, the report may
target a collection and the report is applied to each versioned
controlled resource in the tree.



