docno="lists-085-4635897"
received="Thu Jan 11 16:38:08 2001"
isoreceived="20010111213808"
sent="Thu, 11 Jan 2001 16:38:06 -0500"
isosent="20010111213806"
name="Ian Jacobs"
email="ij@w3.org"
subject="Raw minutes from 11 January 2001 UAWG teleconference"
id="3A5E27BE.3821976E@w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

11 January 2001 UA Guidelines Teleconference

Agenda:
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001JanMar/0073.html

Minutes of previous meeting 9 January:
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001JanMar/0071.html

Next meeting: 18 January 2001

Present: 
   Jon Gunderson, Ian Jacobs (scribe), Eric Hansen, 
   Gregory Rosmaita, David Poehlman, Mickey Quenzer, 
   Rich Schwerdtfeger

Regrets: 
   Harvey Bingham, Jim Allan, Kitch Barnicle, 

Absent: 
    Charles McCathieNevile, Tim Lacy, Denis Anson

==========
DISCUSSION
==========

    1.Looking for a UA representative at coordination group meeting on
27 
      February at all working group meeting in Boston

    2.Update on joint meetings at all working group meeting

     JG: I've started scheduling requests to Voice. They aren't
     meeting at the plenary session. So we may meet with them
     on a teleconference. I think that IJ and I and Al Gilman
     should talk to the Chair of that WG to start communication.

     JG: I haven't heard back from the Mobile group.

     Action JG: Talk to Al Gilman at the next WAI CG meeting
     about a joint meeting with UA, PF, and Voice WG (or
     participants) to discuss accessibility issues.

======
ISSUES
======

/* First, there was discussion of issue 376 */

Resolved to accept the following four proposals:

 Proposal for resolving issue 357:
   http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001JanMar/0019

 Proposal for resolving issue 384:
   http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001JanMar/0032

 Proposal for resolving issue 392:
   http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001JanMar/0042
                
 Proposal for resolving issue 420:
   http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000OctDec/0458

  AND: Leave highlighting of fee links a P2.

 RS: We should state in the techniques that this is implemented
 in existing plug-ins.

 MQ: Sounds good to me. 

 GR: I think this is a good thing, too.

 IJ: Should prompting be P1? Note that form submission is P2.

 DP: I would reconsider prompting before payment requirement as
     P1 instead. People with disabilities have an increased ability
     to inadvertently activate this link.

 IJ: I recommend that we leave this as a P2 since:
   a) Already implemented correctly.
   b) Not widely deployed
   c) Late in our process.

----------
Issue #436: Checkpoint 5.3: Please provide examples
----------
    http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#436

  Resolved: Editorial.

  RS: I think he means "what markup languages". You can get at
  embedded Flash through the DOM.

  IJ: Two axes:
   - Which markup languages?
   - Which APIs?

  Action IJ: Put info about MSAA and JAVAAPI in 5.3 techniques.
     Add TeX, RTF, PDF, Postscript (Flash?), Word, Excel

  RS: In the case of java, you have the java bindings for the DOM.
  I think that Adobe is supposed to be making their PDF viewer
  use MSAA for access to content.

----------
Issue #437: Checkpoint 5.7: Increase priority from P3 to P2
----------
    http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#437

  RS: CSS2 DOM doesn't let you add a style sheet. The API basically
  allows you to get a style sheets for the document.

  RS: I have no problem with raising this priority to a P2.

  JG: 
   - Reviewer has requested raising to P2
   - Several WG participants have requested this be raised to P2.
   - There seems to be developer support for raising to P2.
   - We have information about two conforming DOM 2 style 
     implementations (not sure whether UAs.)

  Resolved: Raise checkpoint 5.7 to a P2 checkpoint.

----------
Issue #438: Checkpoint 7.3: For some devices, is direct navigation of 
    active elements sufficient?
----------
    http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#438

 IJ: Another question: is it useful to have the sequential
  min requirement for a pointing device?

 JG: I think it is: A user with limited range of motion may
  use the mouse effectively with a small area of the screen, and
  that next/previous functionalities would be useful. Also, 
  one reason we required the ability to move graphical controls
  in the tool bar was for users with limited range of motion
  (similar scenarios). In short, some users with physical disabilities
  may benefit from this min requirement for the mouse.

 Resolved:
     - Add to the conformance section a 
       clarification that one implication of checkpoint 1.1 
       is that you don't have to satisfy some of the checkpoints
       for input modalities for which you don't claim conformance.
       Possibly list checkpoints that make input requirements
       (including input device config requirements of G9).
     - No change to checkpoint 7.3 based on JG comments about
       users with physical disabilities.

 Action: 
   - Add this statement to the document. Also add a recommendation
   that even if the UA doesn't claim conformance for a certain
   modality, that they should still implement as many functionalities
   as they can through those devices.          

----------
Issue #439: Checkpoint 7.3: Add technique of directional navigation
----------
    http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#439

  JG: I think that this is the WebTV interface. Directional navigation
  is navigation based on graphical (2d) layout, not document order.
  
  Resolved: Technique seems reasonable.
 
  Action IJ: Add to directional navigation to techniques document.
  Action JG: Send a screen shot of WebTV and directional navigation
             controls.

----------
Issue #440: Checkpoint 7.5: Should min reqs be moved to techniques?
----------
    http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#440

  Resolved: No change to the document. These are functional 
            requirements. 

----------
Issue #441: New requirement (part of 8.5): Add information about the 
            resource being at the same or a different domain.
----------
    http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#441

  Resolved: No change. Already part of the document!

----------
Issue #442: Checkpoint 9.4: Does this include default mouse click 
            behavior?
----------
    http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#442

  DP: ICQ does this.

  Action DP: Send information about tools that allow mouse binding
             reconfiguration. 

  Resolved:
   - If you don't claim conformance for the mouse, then mouse
     reconfig is not required.

--------------
 10.Issue #443: Checkpoint 1.4: Device independent access to pointer 
    (mouse) specific events
--------------
    http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#443

 JG:
   - Currently, because 1.4 says device-independent activation of  
     active elements, emulation by keyboard of mouse-specific
     events is implied. [Thus, the answer to the reviewer's question
     is: this is already a requirement.]

   - However, we need to consider implementations and also
    the actual user experience and we may decide to not
    require emulation and in that case would call it out
    as being excluded from 1.4.

   - Event simulation possible with mouse emulators, so could
     be part of conformance claim.

  Leave this issue open so that we return to it when
  we evaluate current support for emulation of device-specific
  events.

------------
ACTION ITEMS
------------
=========
COMPLETED
=========

 For IJ, refer to list
 http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001JanMar/0077.html

  JG: Propose a list of things we are expecting UAs to recognize in
    scripts.
  Assigned: http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/2000/11/minutes-20001116
  Done:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001JanMar/0080.html

===============
DROPPED
===============

   21.GR: Talk to H?kon about CSS support.
 Assigned:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000OctDec/0237.html

   13.IJ: For Issue 431 ask the reviewer (Greg Lowney) to provide an 
   example of how this would be done, for inclusion in the techniques
   document.
   JG: Agreed:
   http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001JanMar/0079.html

====
OPEN
==== 

   2.IJ, EH, AG: Propose new definitions for terms in question 
     (equivalence, text element, etc.)
 Assigned:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000OctDec/0325.html

   3.IJ: Get wording from Martin for this
     requirement (e.g., "conform", "implement", etc.) for issue 327
 Assigned:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000OctDec/0325.html

   11.IJ and EH: to review the definition of "presentation" to possibly 
      drop URI-dependencies.
 Assigned:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001JanMar/0071.html

   12.IJ and EH: Work on definition of "animation" that identifies 
   "animated image" as a special case. Also talks about script effects,
style 
   sheets effects, markup languages as being able to create animations. 
   (Blinking not part of animations...?)
 Assigned:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2001JanMar/0071.html

   15.JG: Implementation information for guideline 2

   17.JG: Schedule face-to-face time with other WGs 
          (need to contact voice and mobile)
 Assigned:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000OctDec/0383.html

   18.JG: Propose text for the techniques document about synthesized
speech 
   implementation issues. Notably UA and AT wanting to use the same 
   synthesizer engine.
   JG: I won't get to this until February.
 Assigned:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000OctDec/0383.html

   19.JG: Create issue list for things that need to be addressed in the 
          next version of the document
   JG: Pending. I'm developing a new issues list management system.

   20.GR: Review checkpoints in Guideline 10 for implementation
          experience.
 Assigned:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000OctDec/0125.html

   22.GR: Talk to AFB about captioning and positioning
 GR: This is about repositioning of captions. For techniques.
 Assigned:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000OctDec/0383
 DEADLINE: 18 January 2001

   24.MQ: Send more details about control of speech parameters for the 
          techniques document based on OpenBook.
 Assigned:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000OctDec/0237
 MQ: I've had trouble getting OpenBook up and running. I may not have
     this done for a few weeks.

   23.JA: Review checkpoints in Guideline 4 for implementation
          information
 Assigned:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000OctDec/0154

   25.KB: Submit technique on providing information on current item and 
          number of items in search


-- 
Ian Jacobs (jacobs@w3.org)   http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Tel:                         +1 831 457-2842
Cell:                        +1 917 450-8783



