docno="lists-058-3330593"
received="Fri Feb 20 05:37:18 2004"
isoreceived="20040220103718"
sent="Fri, 20 Feb 2004 11:40:52 +0100"
isosent="20040220104052"
name="Translation_rangelandia"
email="translation@rangelandia.com"
subject="TR: B.I.T. brings you the Rio Carnival"
id="HCEAIFKMEFCENJAMDEAJGEFKCBAA.translation@rangelandia.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:<w3c-translators@w3.org>


Dear Moderator,
  I would like to ask you to block this kind of spam  from this list.

  Thank you,

  A?da Sousa
    -----Message d'origine-----
    De : w3c-translators-request@w3.org
[mailto:w3c-translators-request@w3.org]De la part de Luiz Henrique
    Envoy? : vendredi 20 f?vrier 2004 01:53
    ? : w3c-translators@w3.org
    Objet : B.I.T. brings you the Rio Carnival





    Are you a bit short of sun and warmth? Come to the Carnival of Rio!





    Please click here to view our Carnival Live Image Camera:
http://www.bitourism.com/livecams.asp

    (Please wait then for some seconds to load and refer to Parade Schedule
in text attach. Axis Plug In may be installed.)



    You will see the corner of "Posto 9" on the beach of Ipanema. It is
magic! The Bossa Nova was born here, spontaneous street parties take place
during Brazilian summer, sunsets are so stunningly beautiful and the most
handsome locals meet here.



    The Street Carnival happens here too. The happy "Blocos" impress with
the famous Brazilian happiness and are a perfect example of sheer joy.



    For us from B.I.T. a great opportunity to remind you of our popular
Carioca-BBQ! We have right here our infrastructure with beach chairs and
umbrellas, beach volley and soccer (our Brazilian team remains unbeaten!).
Lobster from the grill, swimming in the sea and stretching out in the sun
makes everyone happy.



    We transmit the event from close and in higher resolution! This
incentive gag is not only a comfort to those who had to stay at home, but
will motivate them next year.



    By the way, our multimedia company offers many added values to our
groups and it creates successfully home pages and CD-Roms for all segments
of tourism. This is a plus for our guests - even if being it only for our
excellent relations with hotels and local tourism offices.
(www.Dinabit.com )



    For sure you will understand now that our offices will be closed until
next Wednesday at noon. But of course, each and every one of our staff can
be reached 24 hours on his portable phone -like all the year round.



    Richard Lengsfeld



    Come and meet us at ITB, Berlin

    Richard Lengsfeld

    B.I.T - Brazilian Incentive & Tourism
    Rua Bar?o de Ipanema, 56 sala 501
    22050 030 - Rio de Janeiro - BR

    Tel.: +55 21 2256 5657  Fax: +55 21 2256 5868
    Visit us at:  www.bitourism.com
    ___________________________________



