docno="lists-028-1163105"
received="Mon Jul 10 23:06:02 2000"
isoreceived="20000711030602"
sent="Mon, 10 Jul 2000 20:06:01 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20000711030601"
name="Bradley Ward"
email="bwjoseph@yahoo.com"
subject="[site-comments] &lt;none&gt;"
id="20000711030601.3241.qmail@web1611.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:site-comments@w3.org

Phew, that's a whole lotta information! It looks like
the W3C needs to strongly consider the most basic of
design principles: SIMPLIFY!

I'm a graphic designer looking to break into the web
design business. I came to your web site looking for
general information on HTML trends and a primer on
CSS. Although I'm sure I can find this information
somewhere on your site, it's rather hard to find
buried within the piles of links and headers contained
on each page.

Consider the document "MarkUp" titled "HyperText
Markup Language Home Page" (Isn't putting the words
"Home Page" in the title of a home page kind of
redundant?). I was going to give you a count of how
many different paragraph formats I found on this page,
but I kept losing count. Some of the sections are
numbered, some are bulleted, some of the headings are
mauve, some are blue, some are black, some are
underlined, some are not, (I realize this is because
some of the headers are links, but isn't that also
kind of redundant and confusing?) some of the
paragraphs are indented more than others. The whole
page was a jumble of information that doesn't follow
any logical format, not to mention being written in
one font for the first part, and in a different font
for the second part, and back to the original font for
the last part (which by the way, is a difficult to
read font: sans-serif fonts with high x-heights are
generally hard to read in blocks of text.)

If the W3C wants to lead the Web to it's full
potential, it can start by streamlining the content on
its own web site. While exploring this site, I felt
like a driver wandering aimlessly through the suburbs
of a sprawling city.

I think the content is thought-provoking and valid but
extremely hard to navigate. Shouldn't the W3C have one
of the best sites on the web?

Bradley Ward

__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Get Yahoo! Mail ? Free email you can access from anywhere!
http://mail.yahoo.com/



