docno="lists-080-4723554"
received="Wed Nov 19 09:52:52 2003"
isoreceived="20031119145252"
sent="Wed, 19 Nov 2003 09:52:03 -0500"
isosent="20031119145203"
name="David Poehlman"
email="poehlman1@comcast.net"
subject="Re: link in new window debate"
id="003901c3aeac$b2649510$6501a8c0@handsontech"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="B239BEDED044074C8E2CCC3A9162F2A905B487CD&#64;swilnts804.wil.fusa.com"
expires="-1"


To:<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>


Please, let's stick to the questions at hand and not confuse them with what
a ua does when confronted with a request.

Authors have a choice of whether to open a new window and if opening a new
window, let people know that they are doing it.  We can unequivocally state
that opening new windows can still do harm and that not opening tham does no
harm although judicious coding may be warrented in order to get the same
point across that is so easy to do with a new window.  It has been pointed
out that short term memory can play a part, that dislexia can play a part
and so many other things, The real issue here though is one of resources and
confusability.  I am not confused by new windows, I preffer that I am told
for many reasons within a link that a new window will be opened, but I do
have a resource issue in that as more windows open, My computer system
becomes more and more entangled and difficult to use.  Ah, but you say, Go
out and spend $$ to fix this to which I say, Spend a little time and don't
use new windows since they have not been found to be necessary if as I say,
judiciousness is followed.  I hope I am not repeating myself and I hope that
the message has been made clear by some of the fine posts before mine and
Yes, I have learned some through this thread but My experience and the
Experience of many with whom I have worked suggests that in the final
annalysis, new windows can be quite distructive and not having them can be
mittigated as to the negative effect.

It has been suggested that new windows can be opened in the same window.
This means that there is not a new window then but If the action causing
this breaks ua functions than we have distruction here as well.  We have too
many future senarios, standards bodies that try to sugar coat the issues and
entities which insist on whether through ignorance or stubbornness making
things more complex than they need to be.  I praise Folks here who have
worked on and implemented the guidelines and though they are not perfect,
they are the most adaquate means of getting to where we need to be that we
have today.  On this point then, I shall conceed that you can open a new
window but that we still have not reached a point in time when we are bereft
of the need to be informed that it is going to happen.  I Still hold that
new windows are unnecessary and harmfull but I know I will not win that one.



