docno="lists-066-9199095"
received="Wed Jul  7 23:35:30 1999"
isoreceived="19990708033530"
sent="Thu, 8 Jul 1999 13:35:24 +1000 (AEST)"
isosent="19990708033524"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
subject="Re: Conformance Level"
id="Pine.SUN.3.95.990708132524.23096A-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="Pine.SUN.3.95.990708130356.21060A-100000&#64;ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
expires="-1"

To: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


It should also be added that there are several important constraints under
which the guidelines operate:

1. They are expected to be implemented by tool developers (E.G. the Bobby
evaluation software and tools being developed by the ER working group).

2. They may be referred to, directly or indirectly, in governmental
policies and legal proceedings.

3. They can not be substantially changed without undergoing the W3C
approval process.

Several consequences follow from the above considerations. Firstly, the
guidelines must be technically precise if they are to be implemented and
used as the basis of regulation and policy. Second, they need to be as
general as possible, so that they will not be rendered inadequate by every
change in technology or in applicable technical standards.

This is why the details of the requirements, and how to apply them, are
left to the techniques document, and why the Education and Outreach
working group has undertaken to document access requirements suitably for
non-technical audiences. The guidelines are meant to be an authoritative
reference, not a tutorial. It is to be expected that most people will
concentrate on the techniques document or relevant educational materials,
and refer to the guidelines only when it is time to check for conformance,
by which stage they should be sufficiently familiar with the issues at
stake to understand the terms in which the requirements are exprssed. Once
an individual has reached this level of knowledge, the checklist offers a
convenient point of reference which can be used in day-to-day web content
development activities.



