docno="lists-040-10597489"
received="Mon Feb 26 13:17:56 2001"
isoreceived="20010226181756"
sent="Mon, 26 Feb 2001 10:19:36 -0800"
isosent="20010226181936"
name="Dennis E. Hamilton"
email="infonuovo@email.com"
subject="RE: Preliminary agenda for WebDAV WG"
id="NDBBKEGCNONMNKGDINPFKECBFPAA.infonuovo@email.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="AMEPKEBLDJJCCDEJHAMIIEHOCJAA.ejw&#64;cse.ucsc.edu"
expires="-1"

To:"Jim Whitehead"<ejw@cse.ucsc.edu>
Cc:"WebDAV WG"<w3c-dist-auth@w3.org>


Jim,

Just a reminder that I have a conflict in Seattle for March 21-23 and won't
be at IETF 50.

I will have initiated mailing-list discussion on the property registration
subproject well before the March 18 start of the IETF meeting, and I expect
to have the gathering of requirements and people's sense of this well
underway by then.  Some earlier on-list discussion around property
descriptions also needs to be taken into account.

My proposal is to maintain the schedule that you have already established in
the DAV Project description and have an initial I-D in March.

I will post more and have solicited discussion and input by Friday, March 9.
This week I am clearing my desk of other things plus reading all of the
material I have scrounged from the web so far.

Just so I am not leaving a big question mark in the space, I will also say a
little more about my volunteering to pull together the Property Registration
subproject in the next day or two.

-- Dennis

AIIM DMware Technical Coordinator
AIIM DMware http://www.infonuovo.com/dmware
ODMA Support http://www.infonuovo.com/odma
------------------
Dennis E. Hamilton            tel. +1-425-793-0283
mailto:orcmid@email.com       fax. +1-425-430-8189


-----Original Message-----
From: w3c-dist-auth-request@w3.org
[mailto:w3c-dist-auth-request@w3.org]On Behalf Of Jim Whitehead
Sent: Wednesday, February 21, 2001 11:57
To: WebDAV WG
Subject: Preliminary agenda for WebDAV WG


Here are my current thoughts on the agenda for the WebDAV WG meeting at the
Minneapolis IETF:

- Open issues in the ACL specification

  I suspect most issues in this specification will
  have been resolved on the ACL mailing list before
  the IETF meeting, but if not, we'll make time for
  this.

- Property registration (Dennis Hamilton)

  Discussion of the issues inherent in registration
  of WebDAV properties.

- Open issues in RFC 2518

  We'll start marching down the RFC 2518 issues list,
  and resolve as many issues as possible.

- Reviving DASL

  When to do this, who wants to work on it, in what venue,
  etc.

I'm also hoping to have one or more breakout sessions for WebDAV dedicated
to the resolution of RFC 2518 issues.



