docno="lists-027-11232465"
received="Tue May 20 11:56:20 2003"
isoreceived="20030520155620"
sent="20 May 2003 17:56:16 +0200"
isosent="20030520155616"
name="Philippe Le Hegaret"
email="plh@w3.org"
subject="TF participation (RE: Any telcon today 20/5?)"
id="1053446176.9153.51.camel@chacal"
inreplyto="BC28A9E979C56C44BCBC2DED313A447001C0C0F5&#64;bond.ncl.ac.uk"
expires="-1"

To: Savas Parastatidis<Savas.Parastatidis@newcastle.ac.uk>
Cc:public-ws-pnf-tf@w3.org, Jim Webber<jim.webber@arjuna.com>



On Tue, 2003-05-20 at 17:31, Savas Parastatidis wrote:
> All,
> 
> I am new to this group. I didn't realise that there were regular
> telcons. Given that my University is not a member of the W3C would it be
> possible for me to participate?

This group belongs to the Web Services Description WG and Web Services
Architecture WG and, therefore, has the same requirements for
participation than those groups. Being part of an organization that is
not a W3C member, the only possibility would be to become an invited
expert in one of the Web Services WG, precluding that you fulfill the
requirements in terms of IPR disclosures and agree not to disclose W3C
Member confidential (even if I don't remember that we ever removed
anything from our past minutes before sending to the public). Honestly,
given the current status of the discussion around properties and
features, I'm not convince that an external expertise would bring new
information to the group but you're welcome to try to convince one of
the chairs of WSD/WSA.

In any case, you can always participate in the technical discussion on
this list.

> What is the current state of the discussion on properties and features?

I suggest you have a look at the minutes of the Web Services Description
face-to-face meeting, in particular on Wednesday morning.

> Any recent documents?

We had recent discussions during the face-to-face but no recent
documents.

Philippe



