docno="lists-061-14834061"
received="Fri Apr 20 20:09:39 2001"
isoreceived="20010421000939"
sent="Fri, 20 Apr 2001 19:13:52 -0500"
isosent="20010421001352"
name="Robert Neff"
email="rneff@bbnow.net"
subject="RE: EOWG: resending link to Carlos' latest draft:  Example of implementation plan: corporate - new version"
id="AHENJNNCANEHAIIBJNDGEEMOCGAA.rneff@bbnow.net"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="3.0.5.32.20010420094538.00943150&#64;localhost"
expires="-1"

To:"EOWG"<w3c-wai-eo@w3.org>


this provides a really base!  here are my comments:

1.  here is an edit on the first paragraph last sentence.  also not sure
people will understand 'rendering devices' and we may need simpler language.
also big difference in the action where the word 'possible' is stated.  also
i may this more complex and not sure if it needed but i am trying to
highlight that this is is to be used by all - not just people with
disabilities.

"This policy will ensure our Web site is accessible to the widest possible
audience and this includes people accessing our websites with different
browsers and devices.  The devices may be used by people with disabilities
as well as without disabilties and the web site may be rendered through a
voice, text or other device. "


2.  For section 2 Introduction paragraph, how about a simple intorduction
paragraph.

Successful implementation of the XYZ web accessibility requirements requires
a plan that will obtain buy-in from all department plan.  The key areas that
need to be addressed are organizational reviews, generating milestones,
current situation analysis, training process, and quality assurance.


3.  Under 2. Introduction's 2nd paragraph, these are milestones and may need
to be under that header. "The plan is subject to change and will be reviewed
and evaluated by a mixed team of external and internal experts in weeks 6,
12 and 24 from its starting date. "

4.  For 2.1. Organizational changes, want to avoid the word 'changes' - not
good.  suggest organization reviews. I have an issue with ths paln in the
voice and tense we are using. Are we laying out a plan to do an
implementation review or are we writing how it will be implemented.  I
propose we write as an assessment and impact study.

5. Probably need to address cost and resources somewhere. i saw positions,
but may want ta separate bullet for resources.



