docno="lists-004-5659136"
received="Thu Sep 18 23:44:05 2003"
isoreceived="20030919034405"
sent="Thu, 18 Sep 2003 20:43:52 -0700"
isosent="20030919034352"
name="Peter Lawson"
email="pplawson@123.com"
subject="Good News"
id="81eae981f905.81f90581eae9@123mail.cl"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:james.miller@research.ge.com



Dear Friend.

As you read this, I don't want you to feel sorry for
me, because, I believe everyone will die someday.


My name is Peter Lawson, a merchant in Dubai, in the
U.A.E.I have been diagnosed with Esophageal Cancer
which was discovered very late, due to my laxity in
carrying for my health. It has defiled all forms of
medicine, and right now I have only about a few
months to live, according to medical experts.


I have not particularly lived my life so well, as I
never really cared for anyone not even myself but my
business. Though I am very rich, I was never
generous, I was always hostile to people and only
focus on my business as that was the only thing I
cared for. But now I regret all this as I now know
that there is more to life than just wanting to have
or make all the money in the world. I believe when God
gives me a second chance to come to this world I would
live my life a different way from how I have lived it.



Now that God ! has called me, I have willed and given
most of my properties and assets to my immediate and
extended family members and as well as a few close
friends. I want God to be merciful to me and accept my
soul and so, I have decided to give arms to charity
organizations and give succour and confort to the less
priviledged in our societies, as I want this to be one
of the last good deeds I do on earth. 


So far, I have distributed money to some charity
organizations in the U.A.E, Algeria and Malaysia. Now
that my health has deteriorated so badly, I cannot do
this my self anymore. I once asked members of my
family to close one of my accounts and distribute the
money which I have there to charity organization and
to the less priviledged in Bulgaria and Pakistan, they
refused and kept the money to themselves. Hence, I do
not trust them anymore, as they seem not to be
contended with what I have left for them. 


The last of my money which no one knows of is the huge
cash deposit of twenty four million dollars that I
have with a Security Company in Europe for safe
keeping. I will want you to help me collect this
deposit and disburse it to some charity organizations
and to the less priviledged.


Please send me a mail to indicate if you will assist
me in this disbursement.


I have set aside 10% for you for your time and
patience.


You can e-mail me at:petlawson@gawab.com
 

While I await to hear from you, may God be with you
and your entire family.

Remain blessed.

Peter Lawson



____________________________________________________________
Charle con sus amigos online usando CHAT 123 http://www.123.com/sp/chat/section.php?id_section=329



