docno="lists-015-15099249"
received="Wed Apr 23 11:58:33 2003"
isoreceived="20030423155833"
sent="Wed, 23 Apr 2003 16:57:49 +0100"
isosent="20030423155749"
name="Richard Ishida"
email="ishida@w3.org"
subject="AGENDA: I18N GEO TF telcon, 2003-0423 at 19:00 UTC, 12noon Pacific, 3pm Eastern, 20:00 UK, 5am Australia (next day!)"
id="000301c309b1$17576250$6501a8c0@w3c40upc3ma3j2"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To:<public-i18n-geo@w3.org>




AGENDA
I18N GEO TF teleconference


Please feel free to suggest additional items for the agenda.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bridge   : +1-617-761-6200 (Zakim) with conference code 4186 (spells
"I18N")
Duration : 60-90 minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Day     : Wednesday
Date    : 23 April 2003
Start    : 19:00 UTC, 20:00 UK, 12noon Pacific, 3pm Eastern, 5am
Australia (next
day!)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zakim information    : http://www.w3.org/2002/01/UsingZakim
Zakim bridge monitor : http://www.w3.org/1998/12/bridge/Zakim.html
Zakim IRC bot        : http://www.w3.org/2001/12/zakim-irc-bot.html
------------------------------------------------------------------------


*** indicates a topic that will receive particular attention this week


Draft agenda
============

Review of agenda

Review of actions (see below)

Review of dependencies (see below)

Meetings:

Info Share
****What is this new section about?  Is it useful?
-Martin & Richard to speak at W3C track of WWW2003 in Budapest in
May
-Article by Martin on I18N Activity in MLC
-Anyone speaking at LISA in London? 

New participants
****Trados?

Review of recent activity
****Framework Document released to TR
http://www.w3.org/TR/i18n-guide-framework/


Education & Outreach
****Progress on discussions last week
See minutes:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Apr/0017.html

****Discussion about "Ideas about new Q&A pages" mail from RI

http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Apr/0020.html
Which questions should we go with?



Content discussion
****Brainstorming sections 3 and 4:
Fonts: http://www.w3.org/International/geo/html-tech/#IDAKTCO
Specifying the language of content:
http://www.w3.org/International/geo/html-tech/#IDA1TCO

AOB

================================================
Details:


CONTENT OWNERS
================

Steve
Anything in section 3 (character sets, encoding, entities)
[first priority]
    Anything in section 10 (Objects)

Martin
character sets & encodings in forms

Lloyd
Forms

Richard 
Bidi

Russ
automatic layout

Andrew
i was thinking of jotting down some notes on the following
areas, and 
then seeing what i could add to other sections.
3 Character sets, character encodings and entities
4 Specifying the language of content
5 Text direction
6.4 Ruby
7 Lists
8 Tables
     8.1 Mirroring tables in bidirectional text
15 Writing source text




ACTIONS (ongoing and new)
=======

ACTION: RI, prepare a first Q&A pair ready for review on 28 april. 

ACTION: PA, Do some design work with RI's help: link from International
(& GEO) page, template for list of questions, template for answers that
we write ourselves. 

ACTION: RR, prepare a Q&A pair ready for review on 5 May. 

ACTION: MD, prepare a first Q&A pair ready for review on 12 May

ACTION: RI, set up Phil and Suzanne as Invited Experts

ACTION: AC to create a list of possibilities for 'non-displayable'
characters

ACTION: Lloyd, send a list of deprecated tags in HTML by next meeting 

Action: Richard, look at ways of making the document print with a
smaller font, while avoiding any WAI issues.

All: send in pointers to existing guidelines 

DEPENDENCIES
=============

None.



============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/ http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/



