docno="lists-023-1671056"
received="Thu May 13 09:16:28 2004"
isoreceived="20040513131628"
sent="Thu, 13 May 2004 15:15:59 +0200"
isosent="20040513131559"
name="Thierry MICHEL"
email="tmichel@w3.org"
subject="Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 04/29/04"
id="010101c438ec$6f45a8d0$b503a8c0@wistiti"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<public-tt@w3.org>





Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 04/29/04

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Mike Dolan (invited expert) [MD]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, scribe) [GF]
  Sean Hayes, Microsoft (SH)
  David Kirby (BBC) [DK]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]

Regrets

  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]

************************************************************************
Agenda
************************************************************************

1. MPEG (ISO SC29/WG11) Liaison Submission

2. Font MIME Type Registration [DS]

3. Review input from [GF] on style module at [1].

[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0065.html

4. Review input from [DK] on descriptive vocabulary at [2].

[2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0068.html

5. Plan agenda for upcoming F2F.

************************************************************************
1. MPEG (ISO SC29/WG11) Liaison Submission
************************************************************************

[DS] will help follow up on [3]. Have not received any feedback from
Jan Van der Meer.

[3] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0048.html

************************************************************************
2. Font MIME Type Registration [DS]
************************************************************************

[DS] will hold off a few days for review, and will then send for next
level of review to IETF.

************************************************************************
3. Review input from [GF] on style module at [1].
************************************************************************

[GF] Asks about difference between "baseline alignment point" and
"baseline alignment".

[GA] The former "baseline alignment point" corresponds with the XSL
alignment-adjust property; the latter "baseline alignment" corresponds
with the XSL alignment-baseline property.

Action: [GA] Will review XSL properties and send email on difference.

************************************************************************
4. Review input from [DK] on descriptive vocabulary at [2].
************************************************************************

[DK] Some questions about music.

[DK] Do we need "shift"? Some other properties may cover this already.

[DK] Do we need phrase?

[GA] Suggests we spend one session on this material at upcoming F2F.

[GA] Requests [TM], [MD], and [DK] provide talking points on metadata
items for upcoming F2F.

************************************************************************
5. Plan agenda for upcoming F2F.
************************************************************************

[DK] Suggests continuing with example development.

[GA] Wants to have sessions on: (1) defining DFXP (distribution format
transform profile), (2) defining default transforms from LF->PF and
PF->NF, (3) review SVG examples of style properties, and (4) review
animation and reflow discussion and assumptions to determine consensus
position(s), and (5) review metadata and descriptive vocabulary.

[GA] Asks group if OK to invite John Birch to attend (if he can) to
discuss and help progress R307 (temporal fill mode).

[*] No objection.

[GF] Asks to include schedule for TTAF spec draft as agenda item.

[GA] Will publish draft agenda.

************************************************************************
6. Next Meetings
************************************************************************

Next Telecon will be 05/06 at normal time.

May 10-12 F2F Amsterdam (CWI); start 10:30AM on 10th, end 1800h on 12th
Jun 22-24 F2F Mt View, CA (Microsoft)

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [SH] Will investigate use of media queries in this context and
report back.

Action: [DS with help of Paul Nelson and Peter Lofting] Write RFC to
register appropriate opentype/truetype font types as MIME media types,
suggest model of "application/font-<font-type-name>", e.g.,
"application/font-truetype".

Action: [GA] Make proposal regarding use of Xlink vocabulary or
"src" attribute.

Action: [GA] Draft new requirement on "Integrability"
in general terms that should not impact testing or implementation
requirements.

Action: [GA] incorporate agreed changes into TT-AF-1-0-REQ in
preparation for publishing final W3C Note.

Action: [SH] will review and propose subset of aural parameters
(see R305).

Action: [GA] Add figure showing logical structure anticipated
by requirements.

Action: [GA] Add note to R217 and R219 that shows use of data: URI
scheme.

Action: [SH] to propose subset with extensions for use in CS
Profile.

Action: [GF] investigate syntax for regions vis-a-vis style.

Action: [DK] To write up short paragraph on uses of
role tokens. Suggest removing or adding as he
progresses.

Action: [TM] to propose and define standard MD attributes. N.B.
Awaiting further discussion by WG.

Action: [DK/MD/TM] Formulate recommendation on specific and general
MD features.

Action: [GA] Need to start planning for September meeting in Japan!

Action: [SH] to draft standard ready text for subset of xquery.

Action: [DS] Based on email of 01/14, integrate with fillBehavior as
described in example.

Action: [*] For module owners, start developing test suite documents
that have feature tests in all necesary context, and no superfluous
context. Follow-on for primary spec editor will be to incorporate
fragments from these cases, but that will be subsequent to publishing
first internal draft of integrated spec.

Action: [GA] Will review XSL properties and send email on difference.

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

Issue: Whether to use XLink vocabulary, e.g., as used consistently by
SVG, or use "src" attribute as apparently will be done in XHTML2?

Issue: Probably want to permit in logical content mode the selection
of content based on generic XML features of non-TT namespace
descriptive markup, e.g., for applying style and timing semantics, in
which case an appropriate TT container element shall be implied based
on nearest ancestor TT namespace element.

Issue: Need to think about cascading semantics; how to express, how to
apply, etc. Possibly use CSS semantics here as well.

Issue (2004-03-05): Whether to allow block as immediate child of
inline? N.B. XSL-FO does allow this. [GA] showed example of renmoji
(horizontal block in vertical Japanese lines).

*** URIs ***

[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0065.html
[2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0068.html
[3] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Apr/0048.html

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



