docno="lists-076-6197642"
received="Thu Sep 28 13:31:00 2000"
isoreceived="20000928173100"
sent="Thu, 28 Sep 2000 13:29:04 -0400"
isosent="20000928172904"
name="Jeffrey Pledger"
email="jpledger@mindspring.com"
subject="media: AbleTV.net's montly town hall meeting . . ."
id="4.1.20000928132810.00aa7f10@pop.mindspring.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org

My apologies in advance for getting this information out so late in the day,
however, I would appreciate it if this information could be cross posted on to
other lists where it has not been viewed yet.  I beleive tonight's topics are
important and relavant for people with disabilities to take part in the
webcast.  I look forward to having many of you view this new technology which
will be demonstrated on tonight's show.  heres hoping that you can take
advantage of this opportunity.  Smile.  To view tonight?s webcast, simpley go
to www.abletv.net and then click on the link for the webcast.  You will need to
have downloaded and installed the Real player G2 version 8 application.  We
suggest downloading the Real player version 8 basic (standard edition).    

Jeffrey Pledger 
President, AbleTV.net 


 AbleTV.net Webcast Town Meeting Tonight Introduces New Sponsors: CrossMedia
Networks and Family Adventures 

Chantilly, Va.  - AbleTV.net, the first web-based global TV network for people
with disabilities, announces that tonight?s monthly Town Meeting Webcast will
feature AbleTV.net?s two newest corporate sponsors: CrossMedia Networks  and
Family Adventures.  Tonight?s event, slated for 7:30 PM EDT, live, from the
Internet TV studios of TVWorldwide.com is sponsored by Microsoft Corporation. 
This show is the latest in a monthly series of interactive AbleTV.net webcasts
that attract extensive participation from the disabled community worldwide. 

Tonight?s show features Dan Callahan, CEO, of CrossMedia Networks.  Their
latest development is MyInBox, which uses Text-to-Speech (TTS) and Automatic
Speech Recognition (ASR) technologies to produce a ?hands-free? solution to
retrieving and managing information anywhere, anytime, from any phone.   It is
an ideal service for the blind, allowing them to interact with the Internet in
ways that most people take for granted.

Also appearing will be Jerry Feinstein, Managing Director of Family Adventures,
Inc. and the sponsor of our latest live show, the Able Kids Club ?Story Hour?
which is presented twice monthly.  The next ?Story Hour? webcast will air live
at 10:00 AM EDT this Saturday, 9/30, and feature well known pianist Tony
DeBlois.  Mr. Deblois is blind, autistic and a savant.  He plays 14 instruments
and has a repertoire of over 7,000 songs.    Family Adventures is a new concept
for Community Edutainment Centers that combine both entertainment and education
for children and their parents, with a special emphasis on catering to the
needs of children with disabilities.  In addition to their centers, they will
soon be launching Family Adventures TV.com to allow a much wider audience to
take part in the Family Adventures experience.         



