docno="lists-100-5143202"
received="Tue Apr 20 07:01:00 2004"
isoreceived="20040420110100"
sent="Mon, 19 Apr 2004 11:11:12 +0100 (BST)"
isosent="20040419101112"
name="frangawa james"
email="obiinternational_ltd@yahoo.co.uk"
subject="PROJECTS   FOR   YOUR   INVESTMENTS/LOAN:"
id="20040419101112.51299.qmail@web25102.mail.ukl.yahoo.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:obiinternational_ltd@yahoo.co.uk


        TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN

DEAR SIR,
I am Engr. James Kofi Frangawa.The director of
OBIEROMA INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS GROUP FIDUCIARY
AGENT/CONSULTANTS P.O.BOX S.D. 297 STADIUM ACCRA-
GHANA PHONE: 00233-24-279-633 . A Ghanaian. I was
mandated by GLOBAL INVESTMENT LTD FOR THIS DEAL. 

GLOBAL INVESTMENT LIMITED INTERNATIONAL
FINACIAL CONSULTANTS/ FIDUCIARY
NO 7 PARKING SQUAL LONDON
TEL-0044 7931672550
TEL:00 233-244-851579
www.globalinvestmentltd.20fr.com
E-MAIL:global_investmentltd@yahoo.com


   HIGHLY CONFIDENCIAL


         PROJECTS   FOR   YOUR   INVESTMENTS/LOAN


We have the following contacts as stated below:

[A] We are mandated by a group of Diamond dealers and
Gold miners in Africa. Who are presently taking refuge
in Ghana and other africa country on their roles in
the war?s, for security reasons, to look for a
reputable and serious multi-million Dollar
corporations, business men and women, small private
enterprises, looking for a soft loan to expand their
business.

This loan runs into hundreds and millions of Dollars ,
up to $1.2 billion Dollars. The money are proceed from
Diamond and Gold sales. The funds are deposited in
EROUPEAN BANKS, SECURITY HOUSES IN THE FOLLOWING 
CONTRIERS HOLLAND,SPAIN ,RUSSIAN BANK, LONDON,
THAILAND, SWISSERLAND HONG KONG and  GERMANY .This
Diamond dealers can no longer operate their huge bank
accounts, because of the surveillance mounted on them
and therefor, unable to deal directly with the public
or operate their accounts .Hence, they consulted our
organization
To handle the funds and give it to people as loan.

The Banks in Europe and security companies, are
requiring  a clearance certificate, stating the origin
of any fund leaving their banks. These Diamond dealers
are not able to provide the origin of the funds, as
they don?t need any kind of traces. They are placed
under surveillance, by the United Nations , European
Union and the United States, who accused them of
masterminding all the civil wars in Africa through the
sales of Diamond and Gold. To obtain this loan, we
will be in a position to produce the clearance
certificate, stating the origin of the funds from the
drug enforcement agencies and also, an investment
certificates in all these countries where the money
are lodged. And you will assist us to do this.

If you are interested in this loan, you have to
contact our organization (for memorandum of
understanding and an agreement), open a foreign
exchange account in any our branches or our clearing
houses offshore, in your name or companies name and
apply for the loan. Our organization, will assist you,
to make sure that the loan is granted to you, as soon
as possible. some vital documents will be given to you
as prove that you have applied for a loan that has
been granted by our company as a major investor.who
has come to invest africa, this will be prove of funds
(pof) This will make it possible to transfer some
amount to the bank account you will open for onward
transfer to your nominated  account of your choice.

[B]
We have ($250.000.000.00)united states dollars worth 
of ( AU) Alluvial Gold Dust for sale, deposited in a
prime bank  in London and Russia:

We are mandated to market and sell crude oil
allocation/Exploration of  24 million barrels monthly
by NIGERIA GOVERNMENT.

[C]We have contacts in large quantity of Rough and
polish Diamonds in Conakry-Guinea, Ghana, Liberia and
Togo.

CONDITIONS:
1. You have access of testing stone to stone, by  your
own analyst.
2. Type of payment, will determine the carat after the
analysis.
3.  You have to come down to  Accra Ghana,OR GUINEA
AND TOGO  West Africa FOR YOUR PURCHASE.


THE   FOLLOWING  ARE  THE  EXPENSES  YOU  WILL MAKE 
IN  THIS  TRANSACTION, WHETHER IN ADVANCE  OR  AFTER 
YOUR  ARRIVAL  FOR  THE  COMENCEMENT  OF THE 
TRANSACTION:

A. LOAN PROCESSING APPLICATION FORM UNREFUNDABLE fees:
$400.00 USD

B.Opening of foreign   Exchange Bank  account in your
Name or in the name of your company (this is only for
the soft loan,($1000.00 USD)


The Diamond dealers have agreed to give you, 15% of
the total sum transferred to your account as LOAN, as
your commission for the assistance, while 10% will be
set aside for all the expenses made in this
transaction by all parties involved.

The above mentioned    project[A], is  CONFIDENCIAL 
TRANSACTION  AND SHOULD  BE TREATED AS CLASSIFIED.


Counting on your anticipated co-operation.

Best  regards,

Engr. James  Frangawa.
(BOARD DIRECTOR)


 











Chat instantly with your online friends?  Get the
FREE Yahoo! Messenger http://uk.messenger.yahoo.com/



