docno="lists-023-5166645"
received="Tue Feb 17 14:08:11 2004"
isoreceived="20040217190811"
sent="Tue, 17 Feb 2004 13:07:40 -0600"
isosent="20040217190740"
name="Shawn Lawton Henry"
email="shawn@w3.org"
subject="WSTF action items from 2 Feb (as of 17 Feb) 2004"
id="000001c3f589$51689940$9dc0cfa9@SLHenry"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<public-wai-eo-site@w3.org>



Taking advantage of opportunities at Tech Plen &/or CSUN:
- charmane: remind michael about tasks on feb 9 
- michael: proposal for usability testing or other, send to list week of
9 Feb
- [DONE] carol: email list of previous usability tasks and add "Find
working groups"

Personas
- andrew: send persona suggestions for changes to list
- matt: post new personas to
http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/Drafts/UCD/personas
- [DONE] blossom: send to list thoughts & recommendation on names for
personas
- [DONE] jon: look at issues related to making personas more specific
and make recommendations
- [in progress] jon: get photos for other personas that are missing
them: Professor Zhang (China), Ms. Weesaw (American Indian), Dr.
Sathianathan (Sri Lanka). along with photos, send permission to use
(e.g., where they came from if site grants permission, or model &
photographer releases if you took them)
- [DONE] jon: provide direction from Alan Cooper's ideas on goal-based
Personas
- jon: rewrite Mark (GD), Petroff (designer), Pratner (manager), Mary
(student) to be goal-based
- persona writers: look at your personas and consider tweaking them to
be more goal-based (see jon's examples)
- persona writers: put in first name and last name REMEMBER not real
people!!! send to shawn as  ready-to-paste HTML
- shawn: post updated personas as recvd
- shawn: add to MITS list, under "questions for reviewers" issue of
using first names in persona body and issues with being specific and
exclusionary
- UNASSIGNED ? jon: write blurb about specific personas not meant to
exclude others (as discussed on mon 2 feb)

Users & Tasks & Analysis Summary
- [DONE?in progress] carol: complete task-user matrix, confirm user
column headings match user list
- ALL, Shawn, [DONE]carol: look for trends and design implications in
the tasks analysis
- shawn: add to analysis summary doc carol's implication of task
analysis
- [on hold] charmane: see if have edit suggestions for the user
prioritization section
(http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/Drafts/UCD/users.html#priority)
- shawn: take user prioritization ideas to WAI W3Team domain
- UNASSIGNED: in analysis-sum, users finding #1, draft design
implication based on 26 Jan discussion
- [DONE?none]jon: review the user analysis documents and see what design
implications he finds (for findings & design implications section of
http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/Drafts/UCD/analysis-sum#users)

Information Architecture / Site Map
- UNASSIGNED: check with EO deliverables list & make sure we have
everything for 2004 on site map
- blossom?unassigned: start drafting home page content
- blossom?unassigned: add type of doc to site map (or content list)
- blossom?unassigned: add to site map (or content list) note on primary
user groups for each doc
- shawn: add to site map WCAG content list
- shawn: put in the MITS list: 1. include acronyms with name of the
working group (e.g., on home page) 2. re-examine the site map heading
"WAI groups" (eg maybe WAI Working and Other Groups) based on later
design 3. in the site map is Guidelines & Techniques separate or under
the Resources?

Current Site Feedback:
- michael: add column for submitter or source
- michael: add column for location, url, example
- michael: provide updated format to show others how to provide feedback
- michael: add incoming feedback into spreadsheet
- UNASSIGNED: convert michael's .xls file to HTML
- [in progress] shawn: work with AIR to get UT report & highlight video
done

Examples people like:
- UNASSIGNED?jon?: capture incoming input (probably in same format as
current site feedback

Requirements/Features List:
- ALL: send items for features matrix to list for Justin to add & group
to discuss

Visual Design
- shawn: send I18N redesign idea
- michael: coordinate w/ shawn about possibly asking design firms if
they want to volunteer
- [later] blossom: work on visual design

Misc:
- [in progress] shawn: start firming up plans for CSUN & Tech Plenary

Later & Low Priority
- [low] shawn: fix zakim w/ calling cards again
- [low] shawn: find out about issues related to WAI-specific search
- [low] shawn: check on addresses for females (e.g., Ms., Mrs. etc) in
Asia
- [low] carol and justin: refine together 1 page docs on UCD
- [low] shawn consider WCAG20 is going to be generating a lot of hits,
where should those hits be going? 
- [low, waiting for input from michael] carol: put all card sorting data
in single HTML file
- [low&optional, waiting for input from michael] charmane: gather
updates to IA card sorting participant characteristics
(http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/Drafts/UCD/ia) from carol & michael, update
page, validate for HTML & accessibility, send to shawn after all ready
to post

###



