docno="lists-015-16469573"
received="Wed Feb  5 09:29:44 2003"
isoreceived="20030205142944"
sent="Wed, 5 Feb 2003 14:29:31 0000"
isosent="20030205142931"
name="Richard Ishida"
email="ishida@w3.org"
subject="AGENDA: I18N GEO TF telcon, 2003-0205 at 20:00 UTC, 12noon Pacific, 3pm Eastern, 7am Australia (next day!)"
id="001501c2cd23$05dd16c0$6401a8c0@w3c40upc3ma3j2"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To:<public-i18n-geo@w3.org>




AGENDA
I18N GEO TF teleconference


Please feel free to suggest additional items for the agenda.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bridge   : +1-617-761-6200 (Zakim) with conference code 4186 (spells
"I18N")
Duration : 60 minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Day     : Wednesday
Date    : 5 February 2003
Start    : 20:00 UTC, 12noon Pacific, 3pm Eastern, 7am Australia (next
day!)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zakim information    : http://www.w3.org/2002/01/UsingZakim
Zakim bridge monitor : http://www.w3.org/1998/12/bridge/Zakim.html
Zakim IRC bot        : http://www.w3.org/2001/12/zakim-irc-bot.html
------------------------------------------------------------------------


Draft agenda
============

Review of agenda

Review of actions (see below)

Review of dependencies (see below)

Review of pending edits (see below).

Meetings:

    Next Face-to-Face
       aligned with Tech Plenary
       (http://www.w3.org/2002/10/allgroupoverview.html)
       Royal Sonesta Hotel, Cambridge, MA USA, 3 - 7 March 2003
       Meeting will be Monday/Tuesday 3-4 March 2003

   HOTEL RATE EXPIRES AT THE END OF THIS WEEK!

    Equipment request: projector, telephone line, net drops?


New participants
-Yves Savourel

Review of work process

Format developments
-Review new developments
-Update on discussions with WAI

Content development status
-Review status
-Glossary

Discussion of specific content issues
-Characters, encoding & entities
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Feb/0002.html

-HTML autolayout
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0022.html

AOB

\================================================
Details:


CONTENT OWNERS
================

Steve
Anything in section 3 (character sets, encoding, entities)
[first priority]
    Anything in section 10 (Objects)

Martin
character sets & encodings in forms

Lloyd
Forms

Richard 
Bidi

Russ
automatic layout

Andrew
i was thinking of jotting down some notes on the following
areas, and 
then seeing what i could add to other sections.
3 Character sets, character encodings and entities
4 Specifying the language of content
5 Text direction
6.4 Ruby
7 Lists
8 Tables
     8.1 Mirroring tables in bidirectional text
15 Writing source text




ACTIONS (ongoing and new)
=======

ACTION: Richard, create a list of section owners.

ACTION: Richard, document the structure of the documents for editors 

ACTION: Russ, investigate possible tools and approaches for managing
distributed content development In progress

Action: Richard, look at ways of making the document print with a
smaller font, while avoiding any WAI issues.

Action: Martin, provide ideas for dealing with character sets &
encodings in forms. 
[in progress]

All: register for Tech Plenary (see below)
[in progress] lloyd pete
Reduced rate for hotel only until Saturday (1 Feb)

All: Look at Richard's TOC and send in comments.
[ongoing]

All: read through HTML 4.0 spec and send notes to the list about
possible guidelines. 
[closed]

Richard: Merge discussion doc and decisions into a framework doc (reqts
doc) & also review and respond to WAI requirements doc  
[pending]

All: send in pointers to existing guidelines 
[ongoing]

Suzanne: put together a list of short term vs. long term goals related
to education and outreach - send it to us for discussion 
[pending]

Russ: contact the following people/orgs in search of additional
participants: john jenkins (Apple), andrea vine (Sun), nuray aykin
(Siemens), trados, boeing 
[andrea contacted - she will be back at Sun in March and will let us
know her availability; Nuray - checking with her mgr & ac rep; No
response from others Intel - michael cooperstein plus one other
(encoding)]

Tex: contact the following people/orgs in search of additional
participants: mark davis, lisa moore (IBM), hideki hiura (Sun) 
[mail sent, no replies yet; Spoke with Able - one employee that might be
appropriate]

Richard: craig cummings (Oracle), yves savourel (RWS), christian lieske
(SAP), frank tang (Netscape), hakon lee (Opera) 
[Craig is too busy right now.  Mail sent to christian, frank and hakon -
no reponse yet; Yves contacted, in review]




DEPENDENCIES
=============

None.



EDITS PENDING
=============

Fri 17/01/2003 16:10e, clarify the relationship between 'avoid
escapes' and 'use hex techniques [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:09e, link to the WAI docs section on language
declarations [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:08e, incorporate guidance related to Character
Model & Unicode and Markup Languages [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:07e, time & date: improve rules [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:06e, consider when it is appropriate to mention
source separation [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:04e, say that fragment identifiers shouldn't be
translated [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:03edit, spell out PUA and link to glossary
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:03edit, add normalisation info [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:01edit, add autoresizing and bidi mirroring info
[[ http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html


Fri 17/01/2003 16:01edit, mention video
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:59edit, allude to vertical text in the HTML
techniques
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:58edit, Add a section on printing issues related
to paper sizes to the toc. [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:51edit, make the text print smaller [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Thu 16/01/2003 16:32edit, ac 15jan, add stuff on normalisation

Thu 16/01/2003 16:30edit, ac 15jan, link to WAI lang stuff

Thu 16/01/2003 16:05edit, link to UXML

Thu 16/01/2003 14:42edit, standardise spellings

Thu 16/01/2003 14:29edit, make 2002 2003
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html




============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/
http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/


------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------

Next message: Richard Ishida: "FW: [techs] summary of today's techniques
telecon" 
Previous message: Richard Ishida: "Work process suggestions" 
Messages sorted by: [ date ] [ thread ] [ subject ] [ author ] 
Other mail archives: [this mailing list] [other W3C mailing lists] 
Mail actions: [ respond to this message ] [ mail a new topic ] 

============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/
http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/



