docno="lists-028-14973326"
received="Mon Mar 24 02:51:15 2003"
isoreceived="20030324075115"
sent="Sun, 23 Mar 2003 23:51:13 -0800 (PST)"
isosent="20030324075113"
name="email packet"
email="adfunk166@yahoo.com"
subject="Visit Site Listed For Airasia Ticket Please Click Now!"
id="20030324075113.27363.qmail@web20707.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:site-comments@w3.org


Malaysia's second national carrier and Asia's first
low fare no frills airline. Asia's first airline to
introduce "ticketless" traveling, AirAsia will be
unveiling more incentives in the future to encourage
more air travel among Malaysians. 

http://www.megspace.com/travel/airasia/airasia.htm

On the domestic front, AirAsia has relaunched itself
this month as the region's first low-cost carrier and
taken delivery of a third Boeing 737-300. Modelling
itself behind established low-cost carriers like
Soutwest Airlines in the US, easyJet and Ryanair in
the UK, AirAsia intends to make flying in Malaysia
more affordable to the general public. Its website at
AirAsia.tk has also been revamped and the airline
hopes to begin on-line Internet bookings later this
year. AirAsia has also added flights from Sultan Abdul
Aziz Shah (SZB) airport at Subang to Penang and Kota
Bahru. It plans to add Johor Bahru, Kuantan, Miri and
Tawau later this year. 

http://www.megspace.com/travel/airasia/airasia.htm

southwest airline 
 1133561  airline ticket 
 962735  american airline 
 812149  airline 
 662083  united airline 
 435996  delta airline 
 420904  continental airline 
 407567  northwest airline 
 206041  spirit airline 
 204943  airline ticket cheap 
 194324  alaska airline 
 126267  frontier airline 
 123726  america west airline 
 62618  jet blue airline 
 56534  airline ticket discount 
 54926  aloha airline 
 52700  hawaiian airline 
 51935  singapore airline 
 47939  airline flight 
 41261  american west airline 
 40122  ata airline 
 31960  southeast airline 
 28765  us airline 
 25628  airline travel 
 25525  china airline 
 24804  virgin airline 
 24669  airline reservation 
 22043  air tran airline 
 21667  southwestern airline 
 20583  cheap airline 
 19616  southwest airline reservation 
 19050  philippine airline 
 18871  sun country airline 
 18526  japan airline 
 18440  british airline 
 18146  american airline center 
 17338  american airline home page 
 16850  airline discount 
 16805  indian airline 
 16769  mexicana airline 
 16688  airline price 
 15264  canadian airline 
 15085  malaysia airline 
 14550  international airline 
 14388  malaysian airline 
 14322  midwest express airline 
 13860  lufthansa airline 
 13463  go airline 
 13073  alaskan airline 
 12927  airline job 
 12694  soutwest airline 
 12568  national airline 
 12089  charter airline 
 12084  horizon airline 
 11888  international airline ticket 
 11739  klm airline 
 11231  korean airline 
 10972  cheap airline fare 
 10822  west jet airline 
 10803  airline schedule 
 10577  iberia airline 
 10428  american airline reservation 
 10327  airline consolidators 
 10141  austrian airline 
 10124  mesa airline 
 10036  north west airline 
 9952  midwest airline 
 9901  american airline vacation 
 9543  tango airline 
 9448  emirates airline 
 9116  asiana airline 
 8543  eva airline 
 8507  turkish airline 
 8424  continental airline arena 
 8395  discounted airline ticket 
 8292  airline consolidator 
 8264  scandinavian airline 
 8074  airline company 
 8059  airline song 
 8046  airline mile 
 7994  american airline arena 
 7905  united airline home page 
 7844  cheap international airline ticket 
 7778  buzz airline 
 7584  international airline travel 
 7517  sas airline 
 7505  airline ticket price 
 7432  taca airline 
 7275  airline ticket consolidator 
 7223  airline news 
 7112  airline zip 
 7079  thai airline 
 7043  quantas airline 
 6947  cheapest airline ticket 
 6929  northwest airline home page 
 6783  cheapest international airline ticket 
 6679  hawaiin airline 
 6647  southwest airline ticket 
 6633  hawaii airline 
 6618  midway airline 

airline ticket 
 477396  cheap ticket 
 204943  airline ticket cheap 
 172401  ticket 
 164454  super bowl ticket 
 146505  ticket master 
 122203  concert ticket 
 106591  plane ticket 
 61428  airplane ticket 
 56534  airline ticket discount 
 53834  air ticket 
 38716  cheap plane ticket 
 33885  broadway ticket 
 33597  ticket broker 
 31594  movie ticket 
 24044  cheap air ticket 
 21875  ticket to the eagle 
 21196  bon jovi ticket 
 21148  disney world ticket 
 19476  ticket to the star 
 18905  theater ticket 
 18366  disney ticket 
 17638  flight ticket 
 17463  bruce springsteen ticket 
 17268  ticket to the tennessee titans 
 16601  lion king ticket 
 16397  ticket to the titans 
 16268  train ticket 
 15952  daytona 500 ticket 
 15673  master ticket 
 15444  phish ticket 
 15391  george strait ticket 
 15347  ticket to the dallas mavericks 
 14852  cher ticket 
 14734  nba all star ticket 
 14661  rolling stone ticket 
 14654  ticket to the atlanta falcon 
 14205  ticket to the philadelphia eagle 
 14035  discount ticket 
 13933  ticket to the lakers 
 13597  jimmy buffett ticket 
 13403  ticket to the dallas cowboy 
 13342  ticket to the dallas star 
 13329  ticket to the falcon 
 13293  ticket to the mavericks 
 13157  event ticket 
 13008  ticket to the raider 
 12838  ticket to the cowboy 
 12803  air line ticket 
 12755  elton john ticket 
 12687  ticket to the atlanta hawk 
 12659  titan ticket 
 12458  sports ticket 
 12331  tennessee titan ticket 
 12326  maverick ticket 
 12159  nba allstar ticket 
 12092  cheap airplane ticket 
 11960  georgia bull dog ticket 
 11888  international airline ticket 
 11825  billy joel ticket 
 11716  ticket to the yankee 
 11572  cirque du soleil ticket 
 11447  ticket to the hawk 
 11443  dallas maverick ticket 
 11251  georgia tech ticket 
 11242  bull dog ticket 
 11187  widespread panic ticket 
 11186  widespread ticket 
 11163  georgia tech yellow jacket ticket 
 11151  panic ticket 
 10473  speeding ticket 
 10331  las vegas show ticket 
 9795  discount broadway ticket 
 9539  disneyland ticket 
 9441  cheap ticket inc 
 9378  ticket to watch nba 
 9247  traffic ticket 
 9242  ticket to watch football 
 9078  discount disney ticket 
 8417  ticket to the oakland raider 
 8395  discounted airline ticket 
 8341  ticket master .com 
 8153  ticket consolidator 
 7844  cheap international airline ticket 
 7794  ticket to the washington wizard 
 7615  ticket to the atlanta brave 
 7505  airline ticket price 
 7275  airline ticket consolidator 
 7014  london theater ticket 
 6997  bus ticket 
 6974  online ticket 
 6947  cheapest airline ticket 
 6945  hot ticket 
 6886  discounted international ticket 
 6783  cheapest international airline ticket 
 6778  cheap international ticket 
 6749  low international ticket 
 6647  southwest airline ticket 
 6624  ticket to watch basketball 
 6617  air plane ticket 

8055  airasia 
 143  airasia malaysia 
 89  airasia airline 
 33  airasia com 


southwest airline 
 19616  southwest airline reservation 
 6647  southwest airline ticket 
 6240  southwest airline fare 
 5541  southwest airline vacation 
 3116  southwest airline .com 
 1684  southwest airline schedule 
 1680  southwest airline home page 
 1077  southwest airline vacation package 
 1067  airline credit southwest union 
 1041  southwest airline flight 
 1015  southwest airline employment 
 919  southwest airline special 
 857  southwest airline rapid reward 
 826  southwest airline airfare 
 807  airline code promotion southwest 
 725  southwest airline home 
 716  southwest airline ticket price 
 693  southwest airline web site 
 669  southwest airline job 
 622  southwest airline credit card 
 461  airline airline southwest ticket 
 397  airline pacific southwest 
 378  airline southwest southwest 
 359  southwest airline rate 
 355  airline code promotional southwest 
 332  southwest airline federal credit union 
 299  airline coupon southwest 
 297  airline airline co southwest southwest 
 287  airline number phone southwest 
 285  airline promotion southwest 
 284  southwest airline price 
 270  southwest airline flight information 
 262  southwest airline to las vegas 
 255  airline airline airline online southwest ticket
ticket 
 250  airline deal southwest 
 243  southwest airline discount 
 228  southwest airline package 
 225  southwest airline discount ticket 
 223  china southwest airline 
 221  southwest airline travel 
 209  airline airline southwest southwest 
 208  airline career southwest 
 204  air fare southwest airline 
 191  southwest airline ticket information 
 187  airline commercial southwest 
 186  airline code discount southwest 
 183  cheap southwest airline ticket 
 175  airline cargo southwest 
 167  airline destination southwest 
 165  airline history southwest 
 164  airline com southwest 
 149  airline logo southwest 
 132  airline southwest stock 
 128  airline employment opportunity southwest 
 124  airline employee southwest 
 123  southwest airline cheap fare 
 122  airline code promo southwest 
 121  southwest airline ticket reservation 
 115  southwest airline co 
 112  airline fly southwest 
 111  airline official site southwest 
 110  southwest airline flight status 
 107  airline page southwest web 
 106  southwest airline ticket sale 
 105  airline picture southwest 
 104  accident airline southwest 
 101  airline mission southwest statement 
 100  airline fly free friend southwest 
 99  airline southwest ticketing 
 98  airline crash plane southwest 
 94  airline information southwest 
 93  . airline com southwest 
 92  airline fare schedule southwest 
 91  southwest airline discount fare 
 89  southwest airline las vegas vacation 
 87  airline airline southwest southwestern 
 85  39 airline fare southwest 
 83  airline route southwest 
 82  airline case southwest study 
 81  airline article southwest 
 80  airline southwest vacations.com 
 79  airline search southwest 
 77  airline atlantic southwest 
 75  southwest airline ticketless travel 
 74  airline ski southwest vacation 
 71  southwest airline flight tracker 
 70  airline las package southwest vegas 
 69  air airline southwest southwest 
 68  airline flight info southwest 
 67  airline pilot southwest 
 66  airline fleet southwest 
 65  airline phone southwest 
 63  airline code southwest 
 61  airline city southwest 
 60  airline employee relations southwest 
 59  southwest airline low fare 
 57  airline customer service southwest 
 54  airline purchase southwest ticket 
 53  airline human resource southwest 

http://www.megspace.com/travel/airasia/airasia.htm



---------------------------------
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Platinum - Watch CBS' NCAA March Madness, live on your desktop!



