docno="lists-028-11093223"
received="Wed Nov 13 13:47:53 2002"
isoreceived="20021113184753"
sent="Wed, 13 Nov 2002 11:38:08 -0700"
isosent="20021113183808"
name="Ernie"
email="emink@attbi.com"
subject="comments"
id="000501c28b43$d06c3fa0$cc1cfd0c@ERNIEMINK"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:<site-comments@w3.org>


I noticed a short commentary about Sun JAVA for Internet Explorer Six IN
Windows XP and have a few comments to make.  We all know now that SUN sued
Microsoft over certain issues relating to Virtual Machine and JAVA.  We also
know that Virtual Machine/JAVA is required to go to certain sites like Yahoo
Chat and most Live video feeds.  But what a lot of people do not seem to
understand is that when they try and go to those sites and it asks them to
download the JAVA Virtual machine, it does not work and therefore does not
properly install that way.  This is going to probably sound way out there,
but I am sure I am not the only person who has done this. Sun JAVA can only
properly and fully be installed by going to their website and installing it
directly from there so the program can properly configure it for use with IE
6. Now, even with Sun's version of JAVA and Virtual Machine installed, going
to those sites still will not yield proper results. Here is why: Even with
the Windows XP Service Pack One installed with Microsoft Virtual
Machine/JAVA installed, the SUN Java, when selected in the internet
properties/advanced of the IE6 Tools, will not yield perfect results. Video
feed will come up, but sound will be noisy and make loud high pitched
sounds, at least on six live video feed sites I visited. This is on several
of my friends computers to as well, so this is a common problem with SUN
being the center JAVA/Virtual Machine installed and in operation. And going
to Yahoo Chat seemed ok at first until I tried to send personal instant
messages. I could type in text but they would not allow me to send. It would
do nothing when I clicked  send.  The ONLY way to then configure it properly
is by going back into Tools/Internet Properties/Advanced under tools in IE6
and UNCHECKING the SUN Java next to their coffee cup graphic, and checking
the boxes labeled "JAVA Console enabled" and :JIT compiler for virtual
machine enabled" under Microsoft VM. So it seems you DO have to install SUN
JAVA 2 v1.1.1_01 applet, BUT it still appears to not work correctly and so
you have to install from WIN XP Service Pack One the Microsoft VM as well,
which is still the selection that works 100 percent.  Thank you for your
time.

Ernie Mink



