docno="lists-029-8621830"
received="Tue Apr 16 19:13:05 2002"
isoreceived="20020416231305"
sent="Tue, 16 Apr 2002 16:12:57 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20020416231257"
name="frank kabila"
email="frank_kabila21@yahoo.com"
subject="CONFIDENTIAL"
id="20020416231257.86523.qmail@web14404.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:emp4@lehigh.edu

ATTN, 

I am DR FRANK .A. KABILA, the son of the late
Democratic Republic of Congo President, Laurent
Kabila, of blessed memory that was killed by one of
his bodyguards. I am working as a secret service under
the presidency. I got your contact from the research
that I made at Nigerian chamber of commerce and
industries {N C C I} here in west africa, where I am
presently residing. I write to ask of your assistance.
Before the death of my father he has a vault in his
room where he kept vital documents and foreign
currency, mostly American dollars. 

My mother being his long time mistress got to know
about the combination of the vault and was with him
the previous day before his death. My half brother
that is now the present head of state, General JOSEPH
KABILA was in charge of the army in the northern
country where the rebels have been grouping to topple
my father's government before my father was killed.
Meanwhile we are not in the best of good terms.

My mother on getting to know about the death of my
father quickly open the vault, since she knew that she
is not the legitimate wife and her survival depends on
what she can lay hands on at this moment, then she
took this box from the vault which contains
US$60m{sixty million united states dollars} and handed
it over to me, she instructed me to leave to Nigeria
immediately before the broadcast of my father's death.
I am now in Nigeria and finally succeeded in
depositing this box with a security company for
safekeeping as precious metal. Although, I cannot take
such huge amount of money to the bank without them
raising suspicion on me.

Additionally, I have accepted to offer you 10% of the
total sum for your assistance and I have equally set
aside 5% for any expenses to be incurred during the
process of this transaction and 85% for my family and
I.
Kindly contact me through any of the above numbers. I
will be grateful if you can treat this with utmost
secrecy and confidentiality.
Kind regards. you can email me directly on my private
box:(frank_kabila22@yahoo.com)  

DR FRANK .A. KABILA.
for the family.



__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Tax Center - online filing with TurboTax
http://taxes.yahoo.com/



