docno="lists-046-6494947"
received="Wed Aug 28 13:31:47 2002"
isoreceived="20020828173147"
sent="Wed, 28 Aug 2002 13:27:39 -0400"
isosent="20020828172739"
name="Coffin, Zachary P"
email="zcoffin@kpmg.com"
subject="Change in leadership"
id="23421AE30168D311A1060008C75F34B806092FC3@uslaxexc08.us.kworld.kpmg.com"
expires="-1"


To:zcoffin@kpmg.com
Cc:zpc1@columbia.edu,zcoffin@coffincapital.com


This note is let you know I will be stepping down as Global XBRL Leader and
leaving KPMG LLP, effective September 6th.  The past six years have been a
wonderful chapter in my life and I truly am grateful to have come to know
you.

While at KPMG, whether it was in resource management, the solutions
integration SWAT team, the Digital Media Institute, or XBRL, I have had the
privilege and good fortune to be working with the best of the best-people
I'll always remember, who have helped me grow not just professionally but
personally as well.  Thank you for this.

During the past three years in my current role, it's been a distinct
pleasure to participate in the development of the XBRL standard and the
growth of the XBRL consortium, and at KPMG, to be part of an extraordinary
XBRL team, one which has assisted more organizations around the world than
any other firm.  My departure in no way diminishes KPMG's commitment to
XBRL.  In the hands of regional leaders like Campbell Pryde, Jerry Jones and
David vun Kannon for the Americas; Chris Rodgers and John Turner for Europe,
Middle East and Africa; and Akira Yamagami and Geoff Shuetrim for
Asia-Pacific-and supported by hundreds of others-I sincerely believe the
best days of XBRL lay just ahead.  I hope you do, too.

After September 20th, the best way to reach me will be by e-mail at
zcoffin@coffincapital.com <mailto:zcoffin@coffincapital.com> .  I will be
managing The Global Metrics Fund, a venture fund focused on building and
leveraging a new, global platform for reporting and analyzing business
performance.  This would encompass seemingly diverse but in fact related
areas such as digital reporting and analysis, sustainability and performance
reporting, economic transparency and development, risk management,
information integrity, continuous auditing, e-regulation, genetic and
evolutionary computation, and real-time econometrics...to name a few.

My permanent, personal e-mail is zpc1@columbia.edu
<mailto:zpc1@columbia.edu> , and this should be good for life.  If I can
ever be of assistance, please don't hesitate to contact me.

Again, thank you so much.  It's been an honor to work with you, and I look
forward to the day we meet again.

Kind regards,

Zack







*****************************************************************************
The information in this email is confidential and may be legally privileged.
It is intended solely for the addressee. Access to this email by anyone else
is unauthorized. 

If you are not the intended recipient, any disclosure, copying, distribution
or any action taken or omitted to be taken in reliance on it, is prohibited
and may be unlawful. When addressed to our clients any opinions or advice
contained in this email are subject to the terms and conditions expressed in
the governing KPMG client engagement letter.         
*****************************************************************************



