docno="lists-046-15523856"
received="Tue Mar 25 11:36:45 2003"
isoreceived="20030325163645"
sent="Tue, 25 Mar 2003 08:36:42 -0800"
isosent="20030325163642"
name="Janet Daly"
email="janet@w3.org"
subject="News Release: World Wide Web Consortium Issues XPointer Recommendation"
id="3E80859A.9020001@w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To: w3c-news<w3c-news@w3.org>



Hi, Clint. Good luck with the WS-Chor story.

Here is the News-news today. :)

Today, W3C has issued the XPointer Recommendation in three parts, making
it easier to identify xml fragments and specific parts of XML documents.
This enables more powerful and precise linking, and provides developers
with ways to develop their own schemes for "pointing" in XML documents
and data.

For more information, please contact Janet Daly, W3C Head of
Communications, at +1 617 253 5884 <janet@w3.org>, or contact the
appropriate person in your region, listed in the contacts below.

====================================================

World Wide Web Consortium Issues XPointer Recommendation

XPointer Gives Extensible Model for Identifying XML Fragments, Improving
Precision of Linking

Web Resources:

This news release
     In English:
     http://www.w3.org/2003/03/xpointer-pressrelease.html.en
     In French:
     http://www.w3.org/2003/03/xpointer-pressrelease.html.fr
     In Japanese:
     http://www.w3.org/2003/03/xpointer-pressrelease.html.ja


The XPointer Framework
     http://www.w3.org/TR/2003/REC-xptr-framework-20030325/

XPointer element() Scheme
     http://www.w3.org/TR/2003/REC-xptr-element-20030325/

XPointer xmlns() Scheme
     http://www.w3.org/TR/2003/REC-xptr-xmlns-20030325/


http://www.w3.org/ -- 25 March 2003 -- Today, the World Wide Web
Consortium (W3C) issues the XML Pointer Language (XPointer)
Recommendation - the XPointer Framework, the XPointer element()Scheme,
and the XPointer xmlns() Scheme. The XPointer Framework provides a
lightweight extensible model for identifying parts of XML documents. The
XPointer element() scheme allows the user to point to specific elements
in XML documents and data, while the XPointer xmlns() scheme brings the
power of XML Namespaces to the XPointer Framework, giving a way to avoid
name collisions between schemes and provide namespace binding
information for use within other schemes.

Advancement of these documents to Recommendation indicates that these
W3C-developed specifications are stable, contribute to Web
interoperability, and have been reviewed by the W3C Membership, who
favor their adoption by the industry.

Identifying Parts of XML Documents Had Shown Limitations

When XML 1.0 was first issued as a W3C Recommendation in 1998, it
included a feature called "id," which gave authors a method for
identifying a specific part of a XML document in conjunction with
anchors and other xml elements. However, this meant that parts of a
document could only be formally identified by the author of the
document, not by other users who might want to reference a particular
section or fragment without an id.

The W3C XML Linking Working Group, along with the W3C XML Core Working
Group, began working on ways to expand the power of linking to and
identifying XML fragments. Their combined results include the W3C XML
Linking Recommendation, the W3C XML Base Recommendation, and now, XPointer.

XPointer Framework Expands "Pointing" and Linking Capabilities

The XPointer Framework consists of a set of basic set of syntax rules
for identifying parts or fragments of XML. It provides the mechanism
essential for more full and rich implementation of XML Linking. One can
still use ids as pointers into XML documents and data, but the XPointer
Framework also permits new XPointer schemes for identifying XML
fragments. The rules for how these XPointers are created are consistent
with XML syntax. The XPointer Framework also lives up to the
"Extensible" in XML, as it allows users to create and reference their
own schemes.

XPointer element() Scheme Makes Simple, Elegant Use of XML Document
Structure

The XPointer element() scheme allows pointers to be made from some of
the most common components of XML documents and data - namely elements.
The element scheme allows for both the use of ids and the use of a list
of "pointer-parts" - numerical and text expressions which guides a
software processor to a precise XML fragment.

XML Namespace Scheme for XPointer Helps Avoid Name Clashes

The Namespaces in XML Recommendation helped developers and applications
identify XML Languages and make them easier to combine, eliminating both
conflict and ambiguity. The XPointer xmlns() scheme serves the same
purpose within XPointer.

As XPointer schemes are independently developed, the use of the XPointer
xmlns() scheme distinguishes one scheme from another in a definitive
manner. Even if the same name is used in two or more XPointer schemes,
namespaces enable a processor to tell the difference, and process the
XPointer correctly. The XPointer xmlns() scheme also makes XPointers to
be self-contained, even if they involve prefixed names which require
namespace declarations for their interpretation.

Extensible Framework Makes Room for New Schemes

Beyond the two W3C XPointer Schemes published today, other schemes
developed either inside or outside of W3C Working Groups may also be
used in conjunction with the XPointer Framework, provided the simple
guidelines for the Framework are followed.

Another XPointer Scheme under development at W3C is the XPointer
xpointer() Scheme, which relies on the W3C XML Path Language (XPath 1.0)
Recommendation. The XPointer xpointer() Scheme is currently a W3C
Working Draft.

XPointer Framework Developed by IT Industry Leaders and XML Experts

The XML Linking Working Group produced these W3C XPointer
Recommendations. It consisted of invited experts from the research
community and information technology leaders from AOL/Netscape
Communications; Arbortext; Fujitsu; Microsoft Corporation; Oracle
Corporation; Reuters; Sun Microsystems; the University of Edinburgh; and
the University of Southhampton.

Contact Americas, Australia --
        Janet Daly, <janet@w3.org>, +1.617.253.5884 or +1.617.253.2613
Contact Europe --
        Marie-Claire Forgue, <mcf@w3.org>, +33.492.38.75.94
Contact Asia --
        Saeko Takeuchi <saeko@w3.org>, +81.466.49.1170

About the World Wide Web Consortium [W3C]

The W3C was created to lead the Web to its full potential by developing
common protocols that promote its evolution and ensure its
interoperability. It is an international industry consortium jointly run
by the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science (MIT LCS) in the USA, the
European Research Consortium for Informatics and Mathematics (ERCIM)
headquartered in France and Keio University in Japan. Services provided
by the Consortium include: a repository of information about the World
Wide Web for developers and users, and various prototype and sample
applications to demonstrate use of new technology. To date, nearly 430
organizations are Members of the Consortium. For more information see
http://www.w3.org/



