docno="lists-032-14979045"
received="Wed May 29 23:47:00 2002"
isoreceived="20020530034700"
sent="Thu, 30 May 2002 04:54:09"
isosent="20020530085409"
name="Idris Gwazo"
email="idrisgwazo@eudoramail.com"
subject="BUSINESS PROPOSAL"
id="200205300346.XAA08852@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org


ATTN: THE MANAGING DIRECTOR,

DEAR SIR,

I am Idris Gwazo principal attorney to Engr. Tony
Douglas a Director, Project Implementation with the
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation based in
warri, Delta State.

In November 2001, My client received gratification of
fifteen million, Five Hundred Thousand U.S Dollars
($15,500,000.00) from over-invoiced contract awarded
to foreign firms for the construction and maintenance
of 250 Million (LPG) Gas plant at warri Refinery.
Hence the funds is under the custody of security and
finance company for safe-keeping, I have been mandated
by my client (Engr.Tony Douglas) to seek assistance of
a trustworthy Foreign company or an individual who
could help to provide Bank Account to receive the
money for further investment without any hitch.

However, my client has agreed to will 15% of the total
sum to you, while 5% is set-aside for any expenses
that may be incured during the course of transfer.
Therefore, if this offer is acceptable to you, please
indicate your interest by contacting me on my Email
Address (idrisgwazo@yahoo.com)for a more laborate
explanation.
Please be infomed that there are no risk involved in
your involvement
as all modalities has been put in place to facilitate
the smooth run of the transaction.

My best Regards,

Idris Gwazo.
(PRINCIPAL ATTORNEY)



