docno="lists-053-14168474"
received="Thu Sep 25 13:54:43 2003"
isoreceived="20030925175443"
sent="Thu, 25 Sep 2003 13:54:43 -0400"
isosent="20030925175443"
name="Dan Brickley"
email="danbri@w3.org"
subject="rdfcore 2003-09-25 telecon agenda"
id="20030925175443.GA19847@w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org




Time:
10:00:00 Fri Sep 25 2003 in America/New York duration 60 minutes +
possible 15 minute extension

which is equivalent to
15:00:00 Fri Sep 25 2003 in Europe/London

Phone: +1-617-761-6200 (Zakim)#7332
irc: irc.w3.org #rdfcore

danbri to chair.

1: scribe 
  Graham volunteered

Please could the minutes conform to:
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Apr/0216.html



2: Roll Call


3: Review Agenda


4: Next telecon 26 Sep 2003 1000 Boston Time
Chair?
Volunteer Scribe



5: Minutes of 19 Sep 2003 telecon 

see http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Sep/0213.html

6: Confirm Status of Completed Actions

(this portion of agenda needs more work, sorry --danbri)

See current action list 2003-09-25, 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Sep/0232.html

--

7: Confirm Status of Withdrawn Actions


--

8: Status of Misc Actions


--


9: defusing semantics objections (lbase appendix)

Brian in http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Sep/0242.html
Two of Peter's objections concern the translation to LBase.  I'm 
wondering whether we might defuse these objections by replacing the 
LBase appendix with a suitably worded informative reference to the LBase 
note.

see also 'not accepteds' re semantics (pfps) summarised in 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Sep/0241.html

Proposed: we do just this from danbri,
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Sep/0244.html 
 

10: collecting objections

what exactly do we need to record w.r.t. known objections (esp I18N)
prior to LC2? See
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Sep/0237.html 
and nearby.


11: next steps - planning for LC2

What needs to be done? 

  - couch in terms of refining a 'request to advance' doc 
(old draft http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/RDFCore/20030331-advance.html)
and removing obstacles such that we're happy to send it.

What issues/comments do we need to respond to.
Schedule? - update after SW CG discussion this week



