docno="lists-017-11289193"
received="Fri Oct 25 15:52:42 2002"
isoreceived="20021025195242"
sent="Fri, 25 Oct 2002 21:52:39 +0200"
isosent="20021025195239"
name="Terje Bless"
email="link@pobox.com"
subject="[check] Public Bugzilla?"
id="a01060005-102151067C3EE85311D6AC5400039300CF5C@[193.157.66.10]"
charset="USASCII"
expires="1"

To: QA Dev<public-qa-dev@w3.org>



Predictably, the issue of making the bug database public has surfaced on
w-v. Now as mentioned, the immediate reason I don't make my setup public is
that I don't trust the installation, robust-wise as well as security-wise.

However, when we get a Bugzilla running hosted at W3C the question remains;
should the Bugzilla be public?

One caveat with a public bug database would be that we'd need the access
controls to work as we want them to; so Joe R. Webduhsigner can't
accidentally or maliciously close a bug, change milestone goals,
assignments, or wreak other havoc. Having the ability for anyone to create
bugs, confirm bugs, or add comments would be very good.

However, there is also a question of what the intention behind this
Bugzilla is. Will it only host Validator and Validator-related bug
databases? Or will it function as a bug database for all QA related
Development? I can easily envision circumstances where the QA Activity (or
WG, or whatever) would need to do some closed development and keep a closed
bug database -- some of whch circumstances I even consider valid reasons
for closing things up :-) -- that would ill fit with a public Bugzilla.


The devil's advocate bit done, however, my opinion is that the Bugzilla
should be set up to be public and then we (well, you, actually ;D) can deal
with any such "closed development" issues when they arrive, iff they ever
arrive. A public Bugzilla is far too usefull to let it get shot down by the
mere theoretical possibility that some other mode of operation /may/ be
needed at some point in the future.



-- 
"You gonna take advice from somebody who slapped DEE BARNES?!" -- eminem



