docno="lists-067-8105537"
received="Tue Feb 15 22:09:16 2000"
isoreceived="20000216030916"
sent="Wed, 16 Feb 2000 14:07:43 +1100 (EST)"
isosent="20000216030743"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
subject="Agenda for Thursday's meeting"
id="Pine.SOL.4.10.10002161345520.2409-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


On Thursday 17 February, at 2100 UTC, 4 PM Boston time, 10 PM France, 8 AM
(Friday 18 Feb.) Eastern Australia, there will be a Web Content Guidelines
working group teleconference, as advertised last week. It will be held on
the W3C/MIT "Longfellow bridge", as usual, for which the telephone number
is +1-617-252-1038.

Agenda items:

A review of the internal working draft of the revised Techniques document.
Participants are encouraged to read the document and bring issues to the
meeting. The following areas have been identified as requiring particular
attention:

1. An update to the existing CSS techniques, taking into account recent
and upcoming user agent releases, without overlooking legacy compatibility
problems. External resources describing the current state of CSS
implementation, some of which are listed in the existing Techniques
document and collected on the W3C Style page (http://www.w3.org/Style/),
may be useful. Also, the WAI has prepared a note on the access-related
features of CSS, which may be consulted in the revision of the Techniques:
see http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS-access

2. Techniques for the creation of accessible multimedia, using the
Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL): see the SMIL access
note at 

3. The treatment of non-W3C technologies in the Techniques document.

Note: it is anticipated that the meeting will provide the opportunity to
discuss the general nature of the proposed work in each of these areas and
that action items will be assigned to working group members with relevant
interests.



