docno="lists-066-11147583"
received="Mon Aug  2 22:09:58 1999"
isoreceived="19990803020958"
sent="Tue, 3 Aug 1999 12:09:52 +1000 (EST)"
isosent="19990803020952"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
subject="Cognition (was Re: Suggested issues that may be addressed in next  version of guidelines)"
id="Pine.SOL.4.10.9908031158080.21541-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="199908021743.NAA16884&#64;ruby.ora.com"
expires="-1"

To: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


I agree with the sentiments that Chris has expressed. Research findings
should be able to indicate what types of cognitive limitations exist, the
kinds of communication strategies which have proved most effective in
minimising their impact, etc. At this stage we do not appear to have broad
agreement even in connection with such basic points. The next question
would be, which solutions are best applicable universally, across the web
as a whole, and ought therefore to be included in the guidelines. We
already have one such proposal, namely the priority 1 checkpoint which
demands that language be kept as clear and straightforward as possible,
and a priority 3 suggestion that graphical supplements are a suitable aid
to comprehension where applicable and appropriate. There have also been
suggestions that the requirement for clear and consistent navigation and
orientation mechanisms are of significant cognitive value. The question
which emerges is whether there are any further, or more specific
requirements that should be introduced.

Several strategies have been put forward in this discussion, but as I have
already remarked, there is by no means agreement on which are the most
effective; and this is the area in which I think research-based expertise
can contribute. Indeed, Gregg has already shown this to be the case in his
insightful contributions to this discussion during a number of
teleconferences.



