docno="lists-016-0233873"
received="Thu Jan 16 13:10:07 2003"
isoreceived="20030116181007"
sent="Thu, 16 Jan 2003 18:07:47 0000"
isosent="20030116180747"
name="Richard Ishida"
email="ishida@w3.org"
subject="Minutes: I18n GEO teleconference 030115"
id="001401c2bd8a$2d6efc60$d901000a@w3c40upc3ma3j2"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To:<public-i18n-geo@w3.org>




MINUTES 

W3C I18n GEO Phone Conference
15 Jan 2003

Present: Andrew, Lloyd, Martin, Richard (chair, scribe), Russ, Tex
Regrets: Steve


New Actions
============
Action: Richard, change title.

Action: Richard, change date to 2003.

Action: Richard, look at ways of making the document print with a
smaller font, while avoiding any WAI issues.

Action: Russ, write up some notes on suggestions for auto-resizing and
bidi mirroring and send to list.

Action: All, think this week about areas you would like to work on, then
submit ideas to the editors for incorporation.  Input sought: proposed
headings that reflect questions the audience may be asking; proposed
text for rules (synthesising the essence of the advice), ideas about to
address the description and ideas about links for resources.

Action: Martin, provide ideas for dealing with character sets &
encodings in forms.



Prior Action Items
==============
Richard: update web pages with new teleconference time.
[Done.]

All: register for Tech Plenary (see below)
[In progress]

Richard: start organizing what we've generated so far using the WCAG
techniques document format, so we can play with it and assess whether or
not it's meeting our needs [done]

All: Look at Richard's TOC and send in comments. [ongoing]

All: read through HTML 4.0 spec and send notes to the list about
possible guidelines. [ongoing]

Richard: Merge discussion doc and decisions into a framework doc (reqts
doc) & also review and respond to WAI requirements doc  [pending]

All: send in pointers to existing guidelines [ongoing]

Suzanne: put together a list of short term vs. long term goals related
to education and outreach - send it to us for discussion [pending]

Russ: contact the following people/orgs in search of additional
participants: john jenkins (Apple), andrea vine (Sun), nuray aykin
(Siemens), trados, boeing 
[andrea contacted - she will be back at Sun in March and will let us
know her availability]

Tex: contact the following people/orgs in search of additional
participants: mark davis, lisa moore (IBM), hideki hiura (Sun) 
[mail sent, no replies yet]

Richard: craig cummings (Oracle), yves savourel (RWS), christian lieske
(SAP), frank tang (Netscape), hakon lee (Opera) 
[pending]



Dependencies
===========
None.





Today's key discussion points
======================


Discussion on current techniques doc
============================
To avoid ambiguity, change title to "HTML & XHTML Internationalization
Techniques 1.0", and put information about the versions of HTML & XHTML
in the abstract.
Action: Richard, change title.

Action: Richard, change date to 2003.

Action: Richard, look at ways of making the document print with a
smaller font, while avoiding any WAI issues.

Add a section on printing issues related to paper sizes to the toc.

We should allude to vertical text in the HTML techniques, even though
the relevant information may be in the CSS document physically.

We should mention video.

Headings for 6.2 and 15.5 are the same.  We should check whether it's
appropriate to have both as we develop content.

It would be good to have section about things you can do to enable
auto-resizing and bidi mirroring (eg. Put radio buttons in a separate
table cell so that the dir tag automatically swaps them around).
Action: Russ, write up some notes on suggestions for auto-resizing and
bidi mirroring and send to list.

We should add section on normalisation issues to section 3.

We should spell out PUA on first use (and link to glossary).

We should say that fragment identifiers should not be translated.

We should consider when it is appopriate to discuss source separation. 

Re. data & time section: rules don't say what cases they apply to -
should say that for a  website intended to be read by wide audience
(ie. International English) these rules apply.  For Japanese calendar, 4
digit numbers don't apply - tweak the rules: use qualifiers -  if you
intend to translate / have parallel, want to address international
audience

We should use lower case throughout for element and attribute names
(like xhtml) (see eg META).

We should incoporate guidance in the Character Model and Unicode and
Markup Languages.

We shoud link to the WAI document when it talks about language
declaration.

We should clarify the relationship between 'avoid escapes' and 'use hex
escapes' techniques.

Martin proposed to provide some ideas for dealing with character sets &
encodings in forms, but we should move that to the beginning of the
Forms section.
Action: Martin, provide ideas for dealing with character sets &
encodings in forms.

Action: All, think this week about areas you would like to work on, then
submit ideas to the editors for incorporation.  Input sought: proposed
headings that reflect questions the audience may be asking; proposed
text for rules (synthesising the essence of the advice), ideas about to
address the description and ideas about links for resources.


Review of progress on architectural approach
=================================

Richard is attending meetings of the new WAI Techniques task force.
Today he discussed with them the work he has done on the i18n dtd, and
thoughts about use of templates/overlays as a way forward.  WAI is
looking seriously at possibly basing their dtd on ours.

Richard then reviewed the progress made on the dtd he created based on
xmlspec over the weekend, and shared thoughts on some things still
needing to be done.  These include: much more thought about how to
handle resources (likely to come through experience as we develop
content); more general markup such as ruby support and a common title
attribute; creating a single file for all uri's that is then referenced
by links in the text (reduces maintenance cost for uris that change);
remove all the localizable information from the xsl; etc.

One of our key tasks is to identify what is the right level of chunking
to optimise the reusability of the text.

Richard presented the idea of using templates / overlays to structure
information in the best way for the audience.  The current HTML file is
purely a dump of the "HTML database".  Current thinking is that the
current XML file will be a bag of techniques that can be drawn on by the
templates, which may pull information from more than one xml file.  Use
of templates appears to offer a simple way of managing reordering and
repetition of information in the techniques, as well as template
specific data such as section intros.

Agreed that we should keep exploring this way forward.



Next meeting:
==========
Same time, same bridge, next week.

============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/
http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/



