docno="lists-099-16197930"
received="Sat Mar 27 08:22:13 2004"
isoreceived="20040327132213"
sent="Sat, 27 Mar 2004 14:20:52 +0100"
isosent="20040327132052"
name="Benjamin Nowack"
email="bnowack@appmosphere.com"
subject="Re: [w3photo] Short! Important! Update!"
id="PM-EH.20040327142052.D78BC.5.1D@192.168.27.2"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
inreplyto="A53FF0BB-7F50-11D8-B0D9-000393B64216&#64;fotonotes.net"
expires="-1"

To: Greg Elin<greg@fotonotes.net>
Cc:semantic-photolist@unitboy.com



On 26.03.2004 13:08:55, Greg Elin wrote:
>Last week was very busy. I was remiss in sending out an update of 
>exciting developments.
>
>WWW2004 Panel +1
>We have the go ahead from local hosts to do a panel on W3photo Tuesday 
>or  Wednesday of WWW2004. We can also do a booth...if we can organize 
>people/ourselves to have people at the booth.
sounds just great. I'd really like to be there but I'm still not sure
if I can afford it. _If_ I'm going I could bring along a notebook and
support us/the booth team. (hmm, there is this "interaction design and 
SW" workshop on tuesday, that I'd like to attend then, too...;)

>Privacy/Annotation Issues +1
>Great IRC discussion led to thinking of contributed photos like blog 
>posts: contributor can annotate, others can comment on 
>annotations/regions. This simplifies certain policy issues. Of course, 
>this is the semantic web, so others can create annotations on their own 
>sites that point to photos.
are there already ideas how to realize that technically? (extra terms
for annotation comments / reification / distinction on application 
level / ... ?)

>WWW2004 is a starting point +1
>AKTive Space is going to focus first on organizing conference material 
>for www2004 and then go back to past years. It probably makes the most 
>sense if we present w3photo at www2004 as the beginning of something 
>rather than a finished presentation.
makes a lot of sense to me, as we will probably have various different
annotation tools (hey libby, I like those "tab"-extensions!) that are
still under development. and I guess we'll still be at an experimental
stage in may (only 7 weeks to go)

>Collaborative Workshop?
>Mike and I discussed if the w3photo booth should be more like a 
>collaborative workshop...an ongoing opportunity for people to see and 
>to explore the building of this archive.  Thoughts?
yeah, I'd like that. and also Jim Hendler's "kiosk" idea. would be
perfect to get instant feedback (on tools, privacy issues, ...), and
IMO also very good for SemWeb word spreading/deployment (if we get our
tools working by then) as people could experience some of the RDF 
benefits, e.g. "this tool's cool for mass annotating, this one to 
identify people, this one for browsing.", "No, you don't need to 
make a local copy", "yes, you could add another annotation property
on 'runtime'" ...

great news, Greg. reeespect!

benjamin
--
Benjamin Nowack

Kruppstr. 82-100
45145 Essen, Germany

=================
This is the TEMPORARY discussion list for the W3 Semantic-Photo History
Project. For questions, contact greg@fotonotes.net.

Subscribe Instructions
To:   semantic-photolist-request@unitboy.com
Body: subscribe

Unsubscribe Instructions
To:   semantic-photolist-request@unitboy.com
Body: unsubscribe

Help
To:   semantic-photolist-request@unitboy.com
Body: help



