docno="lists-005-5083917"
received="Tue Mar 30 05:41:47 2004"
isoreceived="20040330104147"
sent="Tue, 30 Mar 2004 11:43:36 +0200"
isosent="20040330094336"
name="pihanks@netscape.net"
email="pihanks@netscape.net"
subject="RE-AWARD NOTIFICATION FINAL NOTICE"
id="20040330104125.B6939A056D@frink.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



LOTTERIA EL GORDO DE LA PRIMITIVA

SWEEPSTAKE PROMOTION.

CALLE MARIA MOLINA 67 PLANTA 2A,

28007 MADRID-SPAIN.






FROM: THE OFFICE OF THE PROMOTIONS AWARD CLAIM ,

INTERNATIONAL PROMOTIONS/PRIZE AWARD DEPARTMENT,





Ref:no EG/38807886091/03

Batch:340/1608/RDL04

Date:30 /03/,04.

Dear Winner



ATTN: Winner,


We are pleased to inform you of the release of the El Gordo de la

primitva Spanish sweepstaker lottery Int.promotion programs held on 1st
January 2004

Your name, attached to ticket number 033-1146993-750 with serial number
1223-05 which drew the

lucky numbers 02 - 08 - 10 - 25 - 38 - 47 which consequently won the

lottery in the 1st category. You are therefore has been approved for a 
lump

sum payout of Euros ?1,291,042.09 ? (ONE Million Two hundred and ninty 
one
thousand,fourty two euros,nine centimos.) in cash, credited to the file
number EG/38807886091/03,this is from the total cash prize of EUR
?21,947,715.50 (Twenty one million nine

hundred and fourty seven thousand,seven hundred and fifteen Euros Fifty
centimos),

shared among the seventeen international and local winners in this 
category.

Your fund is now deposited with the designated bank for the transfer of

your award fund insured in your name by the lotto promotion board.

Due to mixed up of some numbers and names, we ask that you keep this

award top secrete from public notice until your claims has been

processed and your money remitted to your account as this is part of our

security protocol to avoid double claims or unwarranted taking

advantage of this program by

participants.

All participants were selected through a computer ballot system drawn

from 45,000 names from

all over the world AS PART OF OUR INTERNATIONAL PROMOTION PROGRAM WHICH 
IS
CONDUCTED EVERY FOUR YEARS,

AT THE END OF EACH GOVERNMENT TERNURE.

To begin your claim, please contact your claim agent company
immediately,SINCE ALL WE HAVE NOW IS THE WINNING TICKET NUMBER AND YOUR
EMAIL ADDRESS WHICH WAS ATTACHED TO THE WINNING TICKET NUMBER.FOR DUE
PROCESSING AND REMITTANCE OF YOUR AWARD PRICE.Contact Person: WARNER 
DONNA
FRANCES , the foreign service

manager of TRANSTACT CARGO & SECURITY S.A on Tel:

+346-60-52-35-91.,email: pihanks@netscape.net<http://www.netsacpe.net/mailto.cgi?sid=1690409&addr=+346 60-52-35-91.,email: pihanks@netscape.net>)

for processing and remittance of your money to designated account of

your choice. Remember, all

prize money must be claimed not later than four weeks from the date of

this notice,after this date all funds will be returned to the Ministerio
de
Economia y Hacienda of Spain as unclaimed. Note,in order to avoid
unnecessary delays and complications, please quote your reference

and batch numbers in every correspondence with us or your agent. Be

informed that your agent is entitled for the processing of your approved
award file for purchasing the ticket that won in your category as all
relevant documents regarding this claim has been forwarded to your agent
company.

Congratulations once again, from all members of staff and thank you for
being part of our promotions program.



Yours Sincerely ,

M? TRACY ALONSO (for the secretary)

FOR:INTL.LOTTO COMMISSION

MADRID-SPAIN.



