docno="lists-046-14415938"
received="Tue Apr 17 11:00:01 2001"
isoreceived="20010417150001"
sent="Tue, 17 Apr 2001 10:58:26 -0400"
isosent="20010417145826"
name="Janet Daly"
email="janet@w3.org"
subject="News Release: World Wide Web Consortium Grows to Over 500 Members"
id="3ADC5A12.9EF6DECE@w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-news@w3.org,w3c-ac-members@w3.org

For more information on this and other W3C developments, please contact 
Janet Daly, Head of Communications at W3C, at +1 617 230 1884. 

----

World Wide Web Consortium Grows to Over 500 Members
Organizations from 34 Countries Lead the Web to its Full Potential

Contact America -- 
Janet Daly, <janet@w3.org>, +1.617.253.5884 or +1.617.253.2613 

Contact Europe -- 
Marie-Claire Forgue, <mcf@w3.org>, +33.492.38.75.94 

Contact Asia -- 
Saeko Takeuchi, <saeko@w3.org>, +81.466.49.1170

Web Resources:

W3C Homepage
http://www.w3.org/

W3C's List of over 500 Member Organizations, in alphabetical order
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Member/List

W3C Activities
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Activities

W3C Process
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Process-20010208/



http://www.w3.org/ -- 17 April 2001 -- The World Wide Web Consortium
(W3C) today announced that it now has over 500 member organizations,
representing industry, research, government, citizens groups, and other
organizations committed to the development of the Web and its
universality, from over 30 countries.

W3C Draws Leaders and Innovators

Nearly six and one-half years ago, W3C was formed by Tim Berners-Lee as
the place for both the design and standardization of components of Web
architecture. At that time, in 1994, the Web was in danger of
fragmentation; it was at W3C that competing interests met, discussed,
and had to work together. Now, every Web developer knows about HyperText
Markup Language (HTML), Extensible Markup Language (XML), Extensible
Hypertext Markup Language (XHTML) and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS); it
is at W3C that these and many core Web technologies came to be.

As of today, over 500 organizations have committed to membership in the
W3C. This is in addition to the countless Invited Experts who have given
time and lent their expertise to the development of 26 W3C
Recommendations. They come to W3C because it is the place where the work
is done, and the Web of the future is being built today, including work
on the Semantic Web, XML Protocol, and Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG).

W3C Produces Standard-Setting, Interoperable Technologies Through
Consensus

Twenty years ago, people bought software that only worked with other
software from the same vendor. Today, people have more freedom to
choose, and they rightly expect software components to be
interchangeable. They also expect to be able to receive Web content with
their preferred software - a graphical desktop browser, speech
synthesizer, braille display, or a mobile phone. W3C, a vendor-neutral
organization, promotes interoperability by designing and promoting open
(non-proprietary) computer languages and protocols that avoid the market
fragmentation of the past. This is achieved through consensus and
encouraging an open forum for discussion.

W3C is unique in that it performs the functions of design and
standardization concurrently. As a result, W3C has produced technologies
ahead of the product curve in some cases: technologies which are now
being embraced across industries internationally. To ensure
accountability to all users of the Web, the W3C Process provides a clear
description of how work is started, performed, reviewed, and completed.

W3C Working Groups make direct appeals for review from the developer
community at large, and respond to comments from non-W3C members as well
as members. The W3C Membership total may achieve record levels, but
ultimately the work done is to serve the Web and its users to the
fullest extent.

The World Wide Web Consortium is Truly World Wide

One of W3C's primary goals is to make these benefits available to all
people, whatever their hardware, software, network infrastructure,
native language, culture, geographical location, or physical or mental
ability. To this end, W3C's efforts in Internationalization, Device
Independence, Voice Browser, and its Web Accessibility Initiative all
illustrate our commitment to universal access.

W3C has three hosts, each of which has technical experts who lead or
oversee the work done in 22 W3C's Activities. These hosts are, in order
of their joining: MIT in the USA, INRIA in France, and Keio University
in Japan. Over 65 people work for W3C worldwide; this makes W3C unique
amongst standards bodies, in that these are largely technical staff.

In addition, a number of countries have established W3C Offices in order
to promote international involvement in Web development and in W3C.
These local points of contact help ensure that W3C and its
specifications are known in those countries. Each Office works with its
regional Web community to develop participation in W3C Activities.

About the World Wide Web Consortium [W3C]
The W3C was created to lead the Web to its full potential by developing
common protocols that promote its evolution and ensure its
interoperability. It is an international industry consortium jointly run
by the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science (MIT LCS) in the USA, the
National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Control (INRIA)
in France and Keio University in Japan. Services provided by the
Consortium include: a repository of information about the World Wide Web
for developers and users, and various prototype and sample applications
to demonstrate use of new technology. To date, over 500 organizations
are Members of the Consortium. For more information see
http://www.w3.org/


###



