docno="lists-060-2229709"
received="Wed Sep 18 17:37:32 2002"
isoreceived="20020918213732"
sent="Wed, 18 Sep 2002 17:36:53 -0400"
isosent="20020918213653"
name="Jan Richards"
email="jan.richards@utoronto.ca"
subject="Wombat Re-Ordering Proposal (mid-meeting)"
id="1032385013.3d88f1f5816ba@webmail.utoronto.ca"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-au@w3.org


GUIDELINE 1: Ensure that the tool itself is accessible

[Explanation text...]

Checkpoint 1.1: Ensure that the authoring interface follows all operating 
environment conventions that benefit accessibility (Applies at three priority 
levels: [Priority 1] for standards and conventions that are essential to 
accessibility; [Priority 2] for those that are important to accessibility; 
[Priority 3] for those that are beneficial to accessibility). 

Checkpoint 1.2: Ensure that the authoring interface enables accessible editing 
of all element and object properties. [Priority?1] 

Checkpoint 1.3: Ensure that the authoring interface enables the author to edit 
the structure of the document [Priority?2] 

Checkpoint 1.4: Allow the display preferences of the authoring interface to be 
changed without affecting the document markup [Priority?1] 

Checkpoint 1.5: Ensure that the authoring interface enables accessible 
navigation of editing views via the document structure. [Priority?1] 

Checkpoint 1.6: Ensure the authoring interface allows the author to search 
within the editing views. [Priority?2] 



GUIDELINE 2: Ensure that the tool is designed to produce accessible content

[Explanation text...including generating standard markup and WCAG compliant 
text]

Generating standard markup:

[Explanation text...]

Checkpoint 2.1: Use the latest versions of W3C Recommendations when they are 
available and appropriate for a task. [Priority?2]. 

Checkpoint 2.2: Ensure that markup which the tool automatically generates is 
valid for the language the tool is generating. [Priority?1] 



Supporting accessible authoring practices:

[Explanation text...]

Checkpoint 2.3: Ensure that the author can produce accessible content in the 
markup language(s) supported by the tool. [Priority?1] 

Checkpoint 2.4: Ensure that the tool preserves all accessibility information 
during transformations, and conversions. [Priority?1] 

Checkpoint 2.5: Ensure that when the tool automatically generates markup it 
conforms to WCAG 2.0 [WCAG20]. [Relative?Priority] 

Checkpoint 2.6: Ensure that all pre-authored content for the tool conforms to 
WCAG 2.0 [WCAG20]. [Relative?Priority] 

Checkpoint 2.7: Preserve markup not recognized by the tool. [Priority 3] 



GUIDELINE 3: Support the author in the production of accessible content

[Explanation text...including guiding, checking & correcting, promoting]

Guiding the author to produce accessible content:

[Explanation text...]

Checkpoint 3.1: Prompt the author to provide equivalent alternative information 
(e.g., captions, auditory descriptions, and collated text transcripts for 
video). [Relative?Priority] 

Checkpoint 3.2: Help the author create structured content and separate 
information from its presentation. [Relative?Priority] 

Checkpoint 3.3: Do not automatically generate equivalent alternatives or reuse 
previously authored alternatives without author confirmation, except when the 
function is known with certainty. [Priority?1] 

Checkpoint 3.4: Provide functionality for managing, editing, and reusing 
equivalent alternatives for multimedia objects. [Priority?3] 



Checking for and correcting inaccessible content:

[Explanation text...]

Checkpoint 3.5: Check for and inform the author of accessibility problems. 
[Relative?Priority] 

Checkpoint 3.6: Assist authors in correcting accessibility problems. 
[Relative?Priority] 

Checkpoint 3.7: Provide the author with a summary of the document's 
accessibility status. [Priority?3] 



Promoting accessibility in help and documentation:

[Explanation text...]

Checkpoint 3.8: Document all features that promote the production of accessible 
content. [Priority?1] 

Checkpoint 3.9: Document the process of using the tool to produce accessible 
content. [Priority?3] 



GUIDELINE 4: Integrate accessibility solutions into the overall "look and feel"

[Explanation text...]

Checkpoint 4.1 Ensure that the functionalities for checkpoints 3.1, 3.2 and 4.1 
are always clearly available to the user. [Priority?1] 

Checkpoint 4.2: Ensure that accessible authoring practices supporting the 
minimum level requirements for all WCAG 2.0 [WCAG20] checkpoints are among the 
most obvious and easily initiated by the author.@@changed - due WCAG changs@@ 
[Priority?2] 

Checkpoint 4.3: Ensure that all functionality (prompts, checkers, information 
icons, etc.) related to accessible authoring practices is naturally integrated 
into the overall look and feel of the tool. [Priority?2] 

Checkpoint 4.4: Ensure that creating accessible content is a naturally 
integrated part of the documentation, including examples. [Priority??] 



