docno="lists-015-1163822"
received="Fri Jul 26 03:38:56 2002"
isoreceived="20020726073856"
sent="Fri, 26 Jul 2002 08:38:45 +0100"
isosent="20020726073845"
name="Dave Reynolds"
email="der@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
subject="Re: International Workshop"
id="3D40FC85.9DA5E782@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
charset="usascii"
inreplyto="Pine.LNX.4.30.0207251323180.6724100000&#64;tux.w3.org"
expires="1"


To: Charles McCathieNevile<charles@w3.org>
CC:public-esw@w3.org


Seems like a reasonable proposal and I'm happy for it to go ahead.
The chances of us being able to send someone are low but not zero.

Dave

Charles McCathieNevile wrote:
> 
> Hi folks,
> 
> sorry for the delay in getting back to this.
> 
> A rough proposal:
> 
> We hold the international workshop as two sessions at DC-2002:
> An introduction to SWAD-E. A brief overview of what we hope to achieve is
> going to be presented as part of a plenary talk by Eric Miller of the
> Semantic Web Activity at W3C (he is going to be talking about the Semantic
> Web at W3C in general, as I understand it).
> 
> In addition we have a short session (1 or 2 hours) providing a slightly more
> in-depth overview of the project. My hope for this is that we will present
> the work we are doing, our goals for the different areas of work, the
> partners in the project, etc. I would like as many of the partners as
> possible to be presenting work, so we will need to discuss how to organise
> this and still have a reasonable amount of time for discussion of how this
> fits into the wider context of semantic web work in europe and
> internationally, dublin core, etc.
> 
> And we have a session of perhaps 6 hours which is a technical work session. A
> proposed topic is schema interoperability - fitting with both the Semweb and
> Dublin Core themes. Dan Brickley will give some more detail about this, but
> we need to respond very quickly to the Dublin Core folks if we would like to
> go ahead with this.
> 
> I am hoping to have enough answers from people by monday afternoon UK time to
> be able to pass on a sense that we would like to go ahead with this (or
> alternative proposals if people think this is not the way to go). It would be
> useful to know how many of the partners would (probably) be able to attend
> and present.
> 
> Again, I apologise for the short time-scale. I will post a page on the site
> tomorrow with a bit more detail.
> 
> Cheers
> 
> Charles
> 
> On Mon, 1 Jul 2002, Charles McCathieNevile wrote:
> 
> >Sorry, URI for dublin core conference: http://www.bncf.net/dc2002/
> >
> >Charles
> >
> >On Mon, 1 Jul 2002, Charles McCathieNevile wrote:
> >
> >  Hi folks,
> >
> >  How do people feel about holding the international workshop in conjunction
> >  with the Dublin Core conference in Florence in October, and holding a
> >  workshop at HP as discussed as our other required developer workshop in that
> >  period?
> >
> >  The International workshop should be a little more of a general public
> >  introduction to the project than a normal developer workshop, although it
> >  should also have a technical focus of some kind, and the Dublin Core
> >  conference seems more appropriate for that than a single-topic workshop based
> >  on the fact that we potentially have members of the WebOnt working group
> >  available.
> >
> >
> 
> --
> Charles McCathieNevile    http://www.w3.org/People/Charles  phone: +61 409 134 136
> W3C Web Accessibility Initiative     http://www.w3.org/WAI  fax: +33 4 92 38 78 22
> Location: 21 Mitchell street FOOTSCRAY Vic 3011, Australia
> (or W3C INRIA, Route des Lucioles, BP 93, 06902 Sophia Antipolis Cedex, France)



