docno="lists-059-10740061"
received="Wed May 16 04:44:19 2001"
isoreceived="20010516084419"
sent="Wed, 16 May 2001 04:44:19 -0400 (EDT)"
isosent="20010516084419"
name="Charles McCathieNevile"
email="charles@w3.org"
subject="Macromedia and UsableNet Deliver Web Accessibility Solutions (fwd)"
id="Pine.LNX.4.30.0105160443040.18617-100000@tux.w3.org"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To: WAI AU Guidelines<w3c-wai-au@w3.org>


FYI. I have this tool, but haven't got to testing it yet - soon I hope.

This is the sort of thing that it would be good to get using EARL.

chaals

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Mon, 14 May 2001 21:11:56 -0400 (EDT)
From: Jason Taylor <jasonctaylor@yahoo.com>
To: w3c-wai-au@w3.org

Below is a press release of a FREE practical tool and
accessibility kit to help with web site accessibility
and in particular Section 508. You will see from the
direct quotes in the release that beta testing
included many Government agencies and assitive
technology groups to ensure it?s success. It is
available now as a free download at the macromedia
Exchange, as of 9am (PST) there has been more that
1700 downloads.

I hope you agree that the combination of the access to
Dreamweaver in nearly all agencies and this free tool
will be a big aid to many web designers focused on
compliance by June 21st.

The press release is copied below but in case you want
to offer a link to it, here is the link on
Macromedia?s web site.

http://www.macromedia.com/macromedia/proom/pr/2001/index_usablenet.fhtml

The link to download the extension is.

http://www.usablenet.com/macromedia/index.htm

Thank you for you interest, if you have any questions
my e-mail is jason@usablenet.com or you can contact
macromedia directly using the contact information on
the press release.

Regards
Jason Taylor
UsableNet


For Immediate Release

Macromedia, Inc.
Michael Moore
415 252 4952
mmoore@macromedia.com


MACROMEDIA AND USABLENET DELIVER WEB ACCESSIBILITY
SOLUTIONS

Section 508 Dreamweaver Extension and Starter Kit
Address Government Compliance Demands

San Francisco, California -- May 14, 2001 --
Macromedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: MACR) and UsableNet, Inc.
today announced the availability of an extension for
Macromedia? Dreamweaver? 4 and Dreamweaver? UltraDev?
4 that checks Web content for compliance with federal
accessibility guidelines. The extension is also
available as part of the new "Macromedia Accessibility
Starter Kit" that helps developers ensure that their
existing and future Web content is both usable and
accessible to people with disabilities.

The kit is part of Macromedia's ongoing commitment to
enable all users to access Web content and
specifically addresses the issues raised by Section
508 of the Rehabilitation Act
(http://www.section508.gov/). Under this section,
federal Web sites are required by law to make all
content and programs offered on their Internet and
intranet sites accessible by June 21, 2001. The free
kit is available on the new Macromedia Government
Resource Center
(http://www.macromedia.com/resources/government/).

"With looming federal deadlines to make government Web
sites accessible, Macromedia created the resource
center to address the issues of developers working
toward compliance," said Pat Brogan, vice president of
education and learning, Macromedia. "The accessibility
kit contains the federal Section 508 guidelines,
tutorials, trial software, design guidelines, and
product extensions to assist developers in designing,
diagnosing and retrofitting content."

The Section 508 Accessibility Suite for Macromedia
Dreamweaver 4 and Dreamweaver UltraDev 4, created by
UsableNet, allows Web sites to be checked for
accessibility in the same way a document is
spell-checked. The extension, available for free on
the Macromedia Exchange
(http://www.usablenet.com/macromedia/index.htm), helps
ensure Web content meets Section 508 and Level 1
W3C/WAI guidelines and reports can be run on one page,
a complete site, selected sections, or any folder. The
extension can also connect users to an additional
online service from UsableNet that allows tests to be
automatically scheduled on live Web sites.

QSS Group, Inc. a leading engineering and IT services
firm in Maryland, provides support to multiple
government agencies such as DOT, DOC, NASA, Census
Bureau, FDIC, HUD, DoE and others.  Their Webmasters
have responsibility for hundreds of Government Web
sites.  By using the Dreamweaver extension, QSS can
use more junior developers to post Web content, while
ensuring their content is Section 508 compliant.

"Macromedia Dreamweaver is used by a majority of the
Webmasters in our organization, and this extension
will remove the arduous task of manually reviewing Web
sites for compliance -- page by page, image by image,"
said Vanessa Howle, Section 508 Information Officer
for one of QSS' largest programs.  "Early feedback
from our team using the beta indicates that they were
very pleased with the results. If all of our staff
responsible for government Web site content use this
tool to check their application of Section 508 rules,
it will significantly reduce the burden on our Web
teams."

"Everyone and anyone doing business with or for the
federal government is heavily involved in achieving
Web accessibility compliance. In the last 60 days, we
have been approached by more than 50 new clients
including Fortune 500 companies, organizations, and
government agencies," said Mike Paciello, founder and
CTO, WebABLE, Inc., and author of 'Web Accessibility
for People with Disabilities.' "The combination of the
market presence of Macromedia Dreamweaver and the new
UsableNet accessibility extension will build
international awareness across the Web IT community,
giving every Web designer a simple tool to integrate
Web accessibility into their sites."

For more information on usability, accessibility, and
the federal Section 508 guidelines, visit the
Macromedia Government Resource Center at
http://www.macromedia.com/resources/government/.


ABOUT USABLENET
UsableNet develops software, services and Dreamweaver
extensions that allow you to test entire Web sites
against accessibility and usability guidelines
including Section 508 and W3C/WAI. These automated
tools and services identify, organize and fix problems
through integration with Dreamweaver and UltraDev.
UsableNet recently announced a strategic partnership
with Macromedia around usability and accessibility
testing. For more information, go to
http://www.usablenet.com/.

ABOUT MACROMEDIA
Macromedia is passionate about what the Web can be.
Its award-winning products empower designers and
developers to efficiently create and deliver the most
engaging experiences on the Web, and enable innovative
Internet business applications. Headquartered in San
Francisco, Macromedia (NASDAQ: MACR) has more than
1,600 employees worldwide and is available on the
Internet at www.macromedia.com.





__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Auctions - buy the things you want at great prices
http://auctions.yahoo.com/



