docno="lists-084-0159978"
received="Thu Jan 20 13:36:35 2000"
isoreceived="20000120183635"
sent="Thu, 20 Jan 2000 12:34:17 -0600"
isosent="20000120183417"
name="Jon Gunderson"
email="jongund@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu"
subject="MINUTES(edited): W3C WAI User Agent Telecon 19 January 2000"
id="4.1.20000120123300.00d04420@staff.uiuc.edu"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

Attendance

Chair: Jon Gunderson

Scribe: Ian Jacobs

RSVP Present: 
David Poehlman 
Rich Schwerdtfeger
Gregory J. Rosmaita
Dick Brown
Kitch Barnicle
Harvey Bingham

Regrets: 
Denis Anson 
Madeleine Rothberg 
Charles McCathieNevile 
Jim Allan

Action Items

Completed Action Items

   1.IJ: Update document with resolutions for issue LC#162 

   2.IJ: Update document with resolutions for issue LC#166 

   3.IJ: Update document with resolutions for issue LC#175 

   4.IJ: Update document with resolutions for Issue LC#176 

   5.IJ: Add info related to searching for non-rendered information (or
searches using voice output user agents) to appendix 

   6.IJ: Adopt changes in wording for Checkpoint 1.1 

   7.JG: Find a host/date for next FTF meeting 

   8.JG: Take issue of mobile devices/guidelines in next WAI CG meeting. 
     http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000JanMar/0089.html 

   9.DA: Follow up with Alan Cantor on what is the critical component(s)
for graphical configuration (done by email during meeting)
     http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000JanMar/0091.html 

  10.DB: Send proposal for single key access wording for checkpoint 10.3
     http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000JanMar/0099.html 

  11.DP: Propose new Checkpoint 1.5 for access to system messages
     http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000JanMar/0122.html 

  12.GR: Send screen shot of JFW link list to the list 
     http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000JanMar/0123.html 

  13.GR: Remind DP of this action to proposed new text for checkpoint 1.5 

  14.WC: Take form submission to GL WG to discuss issues related to
inadvertent submission. 

Continued Action Items 

   1.IJ: Repropose checkpoint 1.5 

   2.CMN: Follow up on this with some learning disability people on
graphical configuration issue 

   3.DB: Ask IE Team about publication of review of IE 5 and Pri 1
checkpoints. 

   4.DB: Find out how developers find out which appropriate triggers to use
in Windows for using built-in accessibility features (i.e. sound sentry,
show sounds, ...)

   5.GR: Send to the list techniques for how to use and control focus to
not have new windows cause problems for usability. In particular, how this
will work with ATs. 

   6.MK: Find out techniques for sending text search requests to servers of
streamed text. 

   7.MR: Review techniques for topic 3.1 (Multi-media) 

   8.MR: Review techniques for Guideline 4 (Multi-media) 

   9.MR: Run a multimedia player through the guidelines for January. 

  10.MQ: Ask Mark about meaning of comment raised in Issue #167 

  11.MQ: Ask Mark Hakkinen about telephone browsers and the guidelines. 

New Action Items 

   1.DB: Schedule time with IE team for next tuesday when CMN will be in
Seattle to review the CR if ready. 

   2.IJ: Make change for 2.1 note. 

   3.IJ: Make change in checkpoint 1.6 with clarification of what is meant
by profiles 

   4.IJ: Make change wtih clarification of Checkpoint 2.3 

   5.IJ: Propose split of checkpoint 10.4 to list 

   6.IJ: Propose changes to checkpoint 1.5 to the list. 

Minutes 

NEXT MEETING: 20 January 2000 @2pm ET 

Agenda [1]

[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000JanMar/0119.html 

1) Review of action items

1.IJ: Update document with resolutions for issue LC#162 
Done. 

2.IJ: Update document with resolutions for issue LC#166 
Done. 

3.IJ: Update document with resolutions for issue LC#175 
Done. 

4.IJ: Update document with resolutions for Issue LC#176 
Done. 

5.IJ: Repropose checkpoint 1.5 
Not done. 

6.IJ: Add info related to searching for non-rendered information (or
searches using voice output user agents) to appendix 
Need to verify. 

7.IJ: Adopt changes in wording for Checkpoint 1.1 
Not done. 

8.JG: Find a host/date for next FTF meeting 
See below. 

9.JG: Take issue of mobile devices/guidelines in next WAI CG meeting. 
Done. 

10.CMN: Follow up on this with some learning disability people on graphical
configuration issue 
No info. 

11.DA: Follow up with Alan Cantor on what is the critical component(s) for
graphical configuration (done by email during meeting) 
Done. 

12.DB: Send proposal for single key access wording for checkpoint 10.3 
done. 

13.DB: Ask IE Team about publication of review of IE 5 and Pri 1 checkpoints. 
pending. 

14.DB: Find out how developers find out which appropriate triggers to use
in Windows for using built-in accessibility features (i.e. sound sentry,
show sounds, ...) 
pending. 

15.DP: Propose new Checkpoint 1.5 for access to system messages 
Done. 

16.GR: Send to the list techniques for how to use and control focus to not
have new windows cause problems for usability. In particular, how this will
work with
ATs. 
Pending. Will ask RS at PF face-to-face. 

17.GR: Send screen shot of JFW link list to the list 
Done. 

18.GR: Remind DP of this action to proposed new text for checkpoint 1.5 
Done. 

19.MK: Find out techniques for sending text search requests to servers of
streamed text. 
No info. 

20.MR: Review techniques for topic 3.1 (Multi-media) 
pending 

21.MR: Review techniques for Guideline 4 (Multi-media) 
pending 

22.MR: Run a multimedia player through the guidelines for January. 
pending 

23.MQ: Ask Mark about meaning of comment raised in Issue #167 
pending. 

24.MQ: Ask Mark Hakkinen about telephone browsers and the guidelines. 
pending. 

No info. 

25.WC: Take form submission to GL WG to discuss issues related to
inadvertent submission. 
Done. 

2) Announcements 

Regular UA telecon scheduled 20 January 2000 at 2:00 pm to 3:30 pm Eastern
Standard Time, USA 
http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/2000/01/wai-ua-telecon-20000120.html 

3) Discussion 

1.Candidate Recommendation planning update 

IJ: Once we get the issues resolved (tomorrow), the WG needs to say "We
want to go to CR". 
- Aim for 24th for CR. 
- Aim to resolve all issues (and document objections) by tomorrow. 
- Update materials for Friday. 

Action DB: Schedule time with IE team for next tuesday when CMN will be in
Seattle to review the CR if ready. 

KB: What if all developers say "We don't expect to satisfy these 5 or they
shouldn't be on the list?" 

IJ: Valuable information that should be considered by the WG. 

2.Face to face planning update 

JG: We have an invitation from RFBD (Princeton, NJ). PWWorks may be "co-host". 

No objections to general location (east coast). 

3.Updated working draft of the guidelines and techniques published on 15
January 

IJ: 
- new short names 
- some new text in there awaiting WG approval. 

13.WD#186: Proposed removal of Note in 2.1

http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#186 

HB: I think "concurrent" is better than "simultaneous". 

Resolved: Approved. 

Action IJ: Make change for 2.1 note. 

14.WD#187: Proposed change in wording to 1.6 (profiles) 

http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#187 

IJ: Note the change - no longer required only on systems with multiple users. 

HB: Reword to be "through a profile". 

Resolved: Approved. 

Action IJ: Make change with clarification. 

16.WD#189: Proposed change to checkpoint 2.3 (missing alt info) 

http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#189 

KB: Required by "whom"? 

IJ: The markup language definition, not WCAG. 

Resolved: Approved. 

Action IJ: Make change wtih clarification. 

4.WD#185: clarification of "single key" access 

http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#185 

Refer to DB's proposal: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000JanMar/0099.html 

DB: Sticky keys on means that you accomplish something with single keys in
sequence. 

JB: I think we want to highlight that you want really single key, direct
access (e.g., "F4" and that's it). I think people want to highlight the
ability to do this, but not
make it an absolute requirement. 

DB: I don't think you'll get developers to add single-key when sticky keys
and sequences exist. 

DP: I think the objective is to perform a single action with a single key. 

KB: In IE, you can get to most of the functions, but can be very
inefficient for some users. The goal (according to Bryan Campbell) is to
let users configure a small
number of single key bindings for important actions. Sequences ok for the
rest. 

DB: I think that this is less important than other accessibility features.
I can, with sticky keys today, do some things faster than some users with a
mouse. 

JG: Refer to Alan Cantor's email about keyboard efficiency as well. 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000JanMar/0098.html 

Consensus: We don't expect all functionalities to be bound to single keys
at the same time. 

IJ: Also, I think there are some contexts where you are inherently doing N
things (e.g., the print control panel). I only mean "things that only
require one step". 

DP: Save input configurations in the user's profile. 

JG: Note that this is possible in Word. We're asking for the functionality
in user agents. 

GR: Note that Opera is a user agent that recognizes different modes, so
that in form edit mode, single key strokes aren't available to the user. 

IJ: noted - there may be modes in which some single keys are not available
(e.g., "p" should not be available in editing mode). 

Proposed: 
- Split 10.4 into two. Make single-key a special case of old 10.4. 

Action Ian: Propose split to list. Priority 2 for new checkpoint. 

Incorporate these pieces: 
- Not all at once 
- Some keys not available at certain times. 
- Intended for one-step operations. 

5.LC#142: Checkpoint 1.5 (output device-independence) needs clarification. 

http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#142 

Refer to proposal from DP: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2000JanMar/0122.html 

DP: Goal of not having my input be sent to the wrong window. 

GR: I would like to talk to RS face-to-face about some of the focus issues. 

JG: I have problems with "all output device APIs". Which ones? The printer? 

JG: I think the goal is that messages are rendered through system controls. 

IJ: I think the actual requirement is device-independent access to
information. System controls are the best way to do this since ATs can
monitor them. 

IJ: I think 1.5 may be covered by 5.2, 9.1, and 5.6. However, 1.5 is P1. 

JG: Problem of support for beeps: is morse code necessary? 

DP: Refer to 9 December minutes as well. 

Proposed: 
- Modify 9.1 to include controls 
- Add checkpoint to G4 to includes messages. In techniques talk about
different priorities of messages. 
- Modify 1.5 about mode-independence of messages. (Don't just use sound or
animations). 

Action IJ: Propose changes to the list.



Copyright  ?  2000 W3C (MIT, INRIA, Keio ), All Rights Reserved. W3C
liability, trademark, document use and software licensing rules apply. Your
interactions with this site are in
accordance with our public and Member privacy statements. 


Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Chair, W3C WAI User Agent Working Group
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL  61820

Voice: (217) 244-5870
Fax: (217) 333-0248

E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu

WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua



