docno="lists-023-1086860"
received="Fri Jan  9 12:13:20 2004"
isoreceived="20040109171320"
sent="Fri, 9 Jan 2004 18:07:54 +0100"
isosent="20040109170754"
name="Thierry MICHEL"
email="tmichel@w3.org"
subject="Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 12/11/03"
id="006601c3d6d3$20bee210$0200a8c0@wistiti"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<public-tt@w3.org>



Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 12/11/03

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, scribe) [GF]
  Sean Hayes, Microsoft (SH)
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]

Regrets
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]
  David Kirby (BBC) [DK]
  Mike Dolan (invited expert) [MD]

************************************************************************
Draft Agenda
************************************************************************

1. F2F Registration Reminder
   *
http://www.w3.org/AudioVideo/TT/Group/2004/f2f-Cambrige/Overview.html

2. Review of Comments on TT-AF-1-0
   * DIWG  :
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-tt/2003Nov/0003.html
   * Nokia :
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-tt/2003Dec/0000.html
      + TM :
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2003Dec/0006.html
      + GA :
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2003Dec/0007.html

3. Finalization of TT-AF-1-0
   * Heartbeat Requirement mandates publishing update by 12/15/03

4. TT-AF-1-0 Specification Progress Review
   * Descriptive Markup :
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2003Dec/0010.html

5. TTWG Schedule Update
   * How to improve pace of work

************************************************************************
1. F2F Registration Reminder
************************************************************************

[GA] Reminds members to register. Notes mispelling of "Cambridge". [TM]
to correct.

[1]
http://www.w3.org/AudioVideo/TT/Group/2004/f2f-Cambrige/Overview.html

************************************************************************
2. Review of Comments on TT-AF-1-0
************************************************************************

   * DIWG  : [2] 
   * Nokia : [3]
      + TM : [4] 
      + GA : [5]

Discussion of DIWG comments.

Resolution: For DIWG-1, agreed. Change transcoding to transformation.

Resolution: For DIWG-2, change "shall" to "should" in R109.

Resolution: For DIWG-3, we are making use of XSL-FO vocabulary for
its descriptive, authoring semantics, but there is no implication
that this vocabulary would or must be used in a distribution format.
A transformation process is capable of reducing these expressions to
CSS and other style formalisms in a distribution format.

Resolution: For DIWG-4, add statement in introduction stating that
all text is normative unless it is in note, an example, or is
otherwise explicitly indicated as informative.

Discussion of Nokia comments.

Resolution: General agreement to support NOK-1 but generalized as
described in GA response.

Resolution: For NOK-2, respond that this would be reasonable
requirement for a DF, but current work is on an AF. Invite Nokia to
participate in future on DF.

Resolution: For NOK-3 and NOK-4, AF != DF.

Resolution: For NOK-5, request clarification if they have some device
independent features for AF context.

Action: [GA] to package above comments for review by TTWG, then
send to commenters once accepted.

Action: [GA] incorporate agreed changes into TT-AF-1-0-REQ in
preparation for publishing final W3C Note.

[2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-tt/2003Nov/0003.html
[3] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-tt/2003Dec/0000.html
[4] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2003Dec/0006.html
[5] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2003Dec/0007.html

************************************************************************
3. Finalization of TT-AF-1-0
************************************************************************

Plan of Action: To incorporate final comments and publish after
12/18 but before 12/25.

************************************************************************
4. TT-AF-1-0 Specification Progress Review
************************************************************************

[GF] will send material he has to [TM] tommorrow. Most of work is
introductory, with examples for visual. No examples for aural style.

General discussion of aural parameters and SSML mapping.

Action: [SH] will review and propose subset of aural parameters
(see R305).

[GA] Can change "shall" to "should" in R305 if we have to.

[GA] Discusses meta data module. Indicates preference to have only one
meta element and not both meta and metadata. Three forms of meta could
be used:

1.  <meta name="foo" content="bar"/>
2.  <meta name="foo">bar</meta>
3a. <meta><m:mymeta xmlns:m="mymeta"/></meta>
3b. <meta name="mymeta"><m:mymeta xmlns:m="mymeta"/></meta>

[EH] On track for 15th for submission. It would help to know more
about body elements.

[GA] Suggest using what is thought best for time being. Editor will
integrate and unify.

[GA] On track for 15th for submission.

[6] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2003Dec/0010.html

************************************************************************
5. TTWG Schedule Update
************************************************************************

[GA] Urges group to make strong progress on draft text and finalize
public spec early in 2004.

************************************************************************
6. Completed Action Items [Not Discussed]
************************************************************************

Action: [MG] To send notice to Daisy requesting final comments on
TT-AF-1-0-REQ by Nov 1.

Done.

Action: [GA] Send out pointer to TEI definition of "role".

Done.

Action: [GA] Remind members of deadline and assignments. Solicit [DK]
and [DS] to take ownership of some parts of spec.

Done.

Action: [GA] Investigate if XML places restriction on use of PUAs in
Numeric Character References.

Done.

Action: [GA] To query [MG] on meeting for F2F for planning purposes.

Done.

************************************************************************
7. Next Meetings
************************************************************************

12/18/03 - Telecon
12/25/03 - No Meeting - US Holiday
01/01/04 - No Meeting - US Holiday
01/08/04 - Telecon
01/15/04 - Telecon
01/22/04 - Possibly No Meeting - GA will be traveling
01/29/04 - Telecon
02/04/04 - F2F - WGBH, Cambridge
02/05/04 - F2F - WGBH, Cambridge
02/06/04 - F2F - WGBH, Cambridge

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

Resolution: For DIWG-1, agreed. Change transcoding to transformation.

Resolution: For DIWG-2, change "shall" to "should" in R109.

Resolution: For DIWG-3, we are making use of XSL-FO vocabulary for
its descriptive, authoring semantics, but there is no implication
that this vocabulary would or must be used in a distribution format.
A transformation process is capable of reducing these expressions to
CSS and other style formalisms in a distribution format.

Resolution: For DIWG-4, add statement in introduction stating that
all text is normative unless it is in note, an example, or is
otherwise explicitly indicated as informative.

Resolution: General agreement to support NOK-1 but generalized as
described in GA response.

Resolution: For NOK-2, respond that this would be reasonable
requirement for a DF, but current work is on an AF. Invite Nokia to
participate in future on DF.

Resolution: For NOK-3 and NOK-4, AF != DF.

Resolution: For NOK-5, request clarification if they have some device
independent features for AF context.

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [SH] Will investigate use of media queries in this context and
report back.

Action: [DS with help of Paul Nelson and Peter Lofting] Write RFC to
register appropriate opentype/truetype font types as MIME media types,
suggest model of "application/font-<font-type-name>", e.g.,
"application/font-truetype".

Action: [GA] Make proposal regarding use of Xlink vocabulary or
"src" attribute.

Action: [GF] Investigate whether to use IRIs instead of URIs?
Note: XPointer and Namespaces in 1.1 use IRIs?

Action: [SH] Investigate use of "role" vs "class" attribute.

Action: [GA] Investigate selection of non-TT vocabulary for
application of style/timing semantics.

Action: [GA] and [GF] Investigate mechanism for cascading
semantics and whether to support cascading on either or both
logical and presentation flowed vocabularies.

Action: [GF] Will send hotel info to [TM] within the next few days
for Feb F2F.

Action: [GA] to package above comments for review by TTWG, then
send to commenters once accepted.

Action: [GA] incorporate agreed changes into TT-AF-1-0-REQ in
preparation for publishing final W3C Note.

Action: [SH] will review and propose subset of aural parameters
(see R305).

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

Issue: Whether to use XLink vocabulary, e.g., as used consistently by
SVG, or use "src" attribute as apparently will be done in XHTML2?

Issue: Whether to use IRIs instead of URIs? Note: XPointer and
Namespaces in 1.1 use IRIs?

Issue: Should we use "class" instead of "role"?

Issue: Probably want to permit in logical content mode the selection of
content based on generic XML features of non-TT namespace descriptive
markup, e.g., for applying style and timing semantics, in which case an
appropriate TT container element shall be implied based on nearest
ancestor TT namespace element.

Issue: Need to think about cascading semantics; how to express, how to
apply, etc. Possibly use CSS semantics here as well.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Thierry MICHEL
W3C/ERCIM



