docno="lists-022-12948533"
received="Tue Feb 24 18:03:13 2004"
isoreceived="20040224230313"
sent="Tue, 24 Feb 2004 18:03:12 -0500"
isosent="20040224230312"
name="Ian B. Jacobs"
email="ij@w3.org"
subject="[Minutes] 23 Feb 2004 TAG teleconf (qnameAsId-18, contentTypeOverride-24, namespaceDocument-8)"
id="1077663792.941.12.camel@seabright"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:www-tag@w3.org


Hello,

The minutes of the TAG's 23 Feb 2004 teleconference are
available as HTML [1] and as text below.

 - Ian

[1] http://www.w3.org/2004/02/23-tag-summary.html

-------------------------------------------------------

                Minutes of 23 February 2004 TAG Teleconference

1. Administrative (20min)

    1. Roll call: DO, MJ, TBL, RF, CL, SW, IJ, TB (Scribe), NW, DC, PC
    2. Accepted minutes of the [8]9 Feb teleconf
    3. Accepted this [9]agenda?
    4. Proposed next meeting: 2 Mar 2004
    5. Resolved to cancel 8 Mar 2004 teleconference (and reconvene 15
       Mar)
    6. Finalize meeting dates in August in Ottawa?
       Action PC 2004/02/09: Propose August ftf meeting dates. ([10]done)
       The TAG tentatively plans to meet in Ottawa 9-11 August.

      [8] http://www.w3.org/2004/02/09-tag-summary.html
      [9] http://www.w3.org/2004/02/23-tag.html
     [10] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2004Feb/0068.html

  1.1 Technical Plenary

    1. [11]Liaisons update

     [11] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/2004/02/TAG-Liasons

    1.1.1 Plenary day planning

   [TBray]

          SW: will open with 10 minutes, DC will do namespace docs...
          DC: some risk for DC
          SW: idea is presentation-light, discussion-heavy

   [DanC_desk]
          (TBray, maybe I'll call you to think a little bit about this
          namespace documents discussion)

   [TBray]
          SW: DO to motivate extensibility/versioning
          DO: short pres showing where we're at; motivate discussion by
          asking hard question; e.g. should Schema 1.1 fix this prob,
          should we introduce "must-understand" somewhere

   [DanC_desk]
          sounds good, DO

   [TBray]
          DO: will write up in email form, send to group to see if
          appropriately motivating
          SW: also, web identifiers
          TB: not enough time for three discussions
          SW: can RF motivate identifiers?
          RF: yes, but didn't understand hints. Given schedule... i.e. an
          indication of what I should prepare
          DO: suggests complex identifiers for multi-processing-step docs
          TB: have 2 discussions not 3
          Drop namespace docs?
          TB: boring
          DC: audience still interested
          SW: Mechanics? queue handling? I will aim to moderate, pick
          questions from floor & panel. done for now?

   Other notes:

         1. Intro to TAG and Web Arch (Stuart)
         2. Namespace documents (Dan C)
         3. Namespace documents (Dan C)
         4. Web Identifiers (Roy F? Qnames, Ids, FragID, URI andIRI)
            Action SW 2004/02/09: Find a volunteer to discuss identifiers
            at Tech Plenary
         5. Boilerplate:
              1. Outline issue
              2. Why TAG interested. What's difficult?
              3. Known positions around issue
              4. Encourage discussion/debate

    1.1.2 TAG ftf meeting agenda

    1. [12]TAG 2 Mar 2004 ftf meeting page
          + Review Plenary day materials
          + Webarch Last Call
          + Liasons with other WGs
          + Phone connectivity planned for TBL and TB.

     [12] http://www.w3.org/2004/03/02-tag-mtg.html

   CL: Request triage of action items to close.

   NW: Ian, I believe I've finished three of my four actions (all except
   asking the schema) and I should have a fifth/second: responding to
   Hammond's last call comment.

2. Technical

   See also [13]open actions by owner and [14]open issues.

     [13] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/actions_owner.html
     [14] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html?view=normal&closed=1

  2.1 Update on findings

    2.1.1 qnameAsId-18

     * [15]qnameAsId-18
          + 14 Jan 2004 draft finding "[16]Using Qualified Names (QNames)
            as Identifiers in Content"
          + Action CL, TB, TBL 2004/01/26: Read finding due 9 Feb 2004.

     [15] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#qnameAsId-18
     [16] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/qnameids-2004-01-14

   [TBray]

          SW: Pending input from TB & TBL
          CL: I looked at it again, didn't see problems
          TBL: don't want to hold it up
          TB: likewise
          ... discussion trying to re-establish context...

   [Ian]
          [17]http://www.w3.org/2004/02/09-tag-summary.html
          [See comments at that meeting from TBL]

     [17] http://www.w3.org/2004/02/09-tag-summary.html

   [DanC_desk]
          "[timbl] On Qname finding: I think NW should make more of the
          algorithm that one uses to determine the binding when looking
          at elems and attributes."

   [timbl]
          "There is no single, accepted way to convert QNames into {URI,
          local-name} pairs or vice versa." (para n-3 in 4.1)

   [TBray]
          CL: Revisiting this point...

   [Chris]
          xptr fails to inherit scope into the xpointer

   [TBray]
          NW: if you use a prefix in an xpointer and there is no xmlns
          thingie in the xpointer, you can't use the in-scope prefixes fo
          the xml doc

   [Zakim]
          Chris, you wanted to offer to be atthe wsd-wg meeting if needed
          and to raise a non-holdup technical point

   [TBray]
          TB: seems like NW has a factual statement of what things are
          like. are we inclined to criticize it?
          DC: seems that what XPointer did is right
          TBL: XPointer is a mini-language can be used anywhere...
          nothing to do with XML in principle

   [Chris]
          if they had done it differently, you would need to rewrite an
          xpointer to move it to a different context

   [DanC_desk]
          quite, chris

   [TBray]
          TBL: problem would be if in another XML vocab e.g. WSDL they
          had another way of mapping... e.g. by looking in a schema;
          there is an extra cost .. if you take Norm's statement
          literally this suggests that there shouldn't be a single way;
          lower cost if everyone uses the same one
          NW: Don't think I said that. Should I modify to say that this
          is commonly used, and should be used

   [Chris]
          I see we are now getting discussion on this doc, brought on by
          the imminent decision to approve the finding

   [Norm]
          lol

   [DanC_desk]
          why is that remarkable, chris?

   [timbl]
          It is not as though we have a solution here.

   [TBray]
          TB: in the context of XML docs, it would be nuts to invent a
          new way of doing it, so the finding should say that in
          particular it's OK for XPointer because it exists outside the
          XML context...and the finding could usefully call that out too.
          e.g. take XPointer as an example
          CL: This came up in the SVG development. We had an attribute
          that pointed to another to animate it; could be in a different
          subtree/doc. Question is: in which context do we do this, the
          pointer's context or the target's context

   [Zakim]
          Chris, you wanted to relate another way to resolve them (that
          was rejected, and rightly)

   [TBray]
          CL: and in this case, the right thing to do was in the context
          where the prefix actually was

   [Zakim]
          mario, you wanted to say: isn't the ns non-inheritance thing of
          XPtr conflicting with the inheritance mechanism present in
          XPath

   [TBray]
          MJ: when I embed in an XPath... the xpath inherits but an
          xpointer doesn't
          NW: but then XPath expressions aren't URIs
          PC: and XPath doesn't define that, XSLT does

   [Chris]
          reminds myself to check what dom3 xpath does by way of a host
          language

   [TBray]
          NW: XPath context has to be init'ed, XSLT & XQuery use mappings
          in containing doc

   [Chris]
          it might be useful to capture some of these cases into the
          finding. If its unclear to us, its unclear to others too.

   [TBray]
          TBL: might be useful to look at some of these cases and discuss
          the cost. Might be able to rebind prefixes.....

   [Zakim]
          timbl, you wanted to quantify the cost: The ability (or not) to
          be able to re-generate prefixes, to be able to determine two
          document fragments to be the same, without application
          knowledge, but with schema knowledge.

   [TBray]
          NW: no; can't rebind prefixes in the general case

   [DanC_desk]
          (I gave up hope on rebinding prefixes long ago)

   [TBray]
          TBL: can in some cases
          NW: that special cases isn't large enough to call out. Will
          amend the wording from sim ple statement of fact to a
          recommendation to do the right thing will have that done before
          Sat

   [timbl]
          (I rebind prefixes all the time in RDF of course)

   [Chris]
          +1 for Norm's suggestion

   [TBray]
          TB: wordy +1
          ACTION Norm to rewrite simple statement

   [DanC_desk]

   thanks, again, norm.

    2.1.2 contentTypeOverride-24

     * [18]contentTypeOverride-24:
          + 18 Feb 2004 draft finding "[19]Authoritative Metadata"

     [18] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/open-summary.html#contentTypeOverride-24
     [19] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/mime-respect-20040218.html

   [Roy]
          I have read "Authoritative Metadata" draft 18 Feb 2004 and all
          of my concerns have been addressed. The document looks great.
          Thanks Ian!

   [TBray]
          see
          [20]http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/mime-respect-20040218.html
          SW: Anyone else seen it?
          DC, TB: prepared to defer to Roy

     [20] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/mime-respect-20040218.html

   [Chris]
          looks good to me

   [Norm]
          yes

   [TBray]
          SW: Resolve to accept?
          RESOLVED to accept that finding
          IJ: now I publish it, right? I would like to make some mods to
          webarch based on the good work done here

   [Chris]
          4.2 Self-describing data and Risk of Inconsistency is very
          good, glad to see that.

   [DanC_desk]
          hmm... arch doc changes? such as?

          IJ: E.g., clarification that sender of metadata not always
          server.

  2.2 Follow-up on [21]namespaceDocument-8

     [21] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#namespaceDocument-8

     * [22]namespaceDocument-8
         1. [23]RDDL2 Background from Tim Bray.
         2. [24]grokRDDL.xsl mapping to RDF from Dan Connolly.

     [22] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#namespaceDocument-8
     [23] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2004Jan/0045.html
     [24] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2004Jan/0026.html

   [TBray]

          DC: I sent email to address comments

   [DanC_desk]
          (my last message on this issue
          [25]http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2004Jan/0026.ht
          ml)

     [25] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2004Jan/0026.html

   [TBray]
          TB: also unconvinced by pleas for XLink version
          DC: asked for pointers to use cases for XLink version, thinks
          people sent them

   [DanC_desk]
          yup, 0026 points to my XSLT/RDDL work

   [TBray]
          TB: missing PC's action item. No interest in a normative RDDL
          note?
          PC: Wrong. AC asked us to turn it into a note and/or give it
          normative status
          CL: and we decided that RDDL wasn't always appropriate
          DC: but that doesn't change the status of RDDL, which we
          officially think is useful

   [DanC_desk]
          (not officially yet, actually)

   [TBray]
          PC: and the direction from the AC was that they wanted
          something to point to

   [DanC_desk]
          (ah yes... bristol decision makes it official, I suppose)

   [Zakim]
          timbl, you wanted to mention push-back agiuanst TAG doing rec
          track spec here.

   [TBray]
          TBL: within the team, there's been pushback against TAG doing
          rec-track work. Members can't join in at will

   [Zakim]
          TBray, you wanted to volunteer what work I'm prepared to do

   [TBray]
          TB: is prepared to go on editing RDDL as long as it stays
          reasonably simple
          PC: discomfort with team-only discussions; would like team
          concerns reported so he can address them, e.g. by pointing to
          our charter where it says we can do rec-track work
          SW: we'd only really discussed taking this forward as a NOTE

   [timbl]
          Ok

   [Chris]
          suggest TimBray takes it if he is motivated

   [TBray]
          TB: we need the finding, Paul's not getting it done, does
          somebody else get it?

   [timbl]
          PC: To motivate the use of one or more formats.

   [TBray]
          DC: not interesting because webarch says enough

   [DanC_desk]
          (finding could talk about content negotiation, etc.)

   [TBray]
          PC: finding would provide more motivation and discuss
          alternatives

   [DanC_desk]
          I don't think my GRDDL background document has much to offer on
          issue 8. it's more on issue 35

   [TBray]
          see [26]http://www.w3.org/TR/webarch/#namespace-docs
          PC: but if webarch has enough, maybe we don't need finding?
          TBL: could build DC's GRDDL stuff into a finding?
          DC: yes it's a finding, but on issue 35 not 8

     [26] http://www.w3.org/TR/webarch/#namespace-docs

   [timbl]
          Ok, I accept that issues 35 and 8 have small overlap

   [TBray]
          PC: will write something for Friday so as to get on F2F agenda,

   [timbl]
          Maybe we should drop the finding, if the arch doc actually
          covers it.

   [TBray]
          PC: it'll be an outline-form thing, if people like it we'lll
          add the meat
          TBL: this really worgh doing, not unnec work for PC?
          PC, DC: seems worthwhile

   [timbl]
          I hope someone brings a video camera to the face-face, now
          TimBray and I will neither be there.

   [TBray]
          DC: people using XLink version, are we worried about that?

   [Chris]
          who was using it? eric van der vlist, as i recall

   [TBray]
          Just Eric as far as I know

   [DanC_desk]
          [[[
          In the meantime, I think that
          [27]http://examplotron.org,http://xsltunit.org and even
          [28]http://rddl.org/ (version 1) are goodexamples.
          ]]

     [27] http://examplotron.org,http//xsltunit.org
     [28] http://rddl.org/

   [TBray]
          Henry Thomson also using it....

   [Stuart]
          Henry's message
          [29]http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2004Jan/0044.ht
          ml

     [29] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2004Jan/0044.html

   [Ian]
          TBray: There are some benefits to the xlink version, but also
          more complex.

   [TBray]
          TB: it's a cost/benefit trade-off
          TBL: if we make RDDL official, would JBorden make some
          commitments. We want a persistence commitmment, along the lines
          of keep it commitment or sign over to W3C, or to a trust or
          some such.
          TB: ACTION TBray to check with Jonathan about persistence
          policy if RDDL hosted there.
          TB: anyone here want to go back to XLink?
          CL: it had more deployment than we thought, and we can make RDF
          equally well from eiither
          DC: TBray, do plan to change RDDL.org to use the attribute
          version?
          TB: yes
          TBL: will the namespace doc at RDDL.org enable fetching the RDF
          TB: yes
          DC: mime-type issue is nontrivial
          CL: if you serve as xhtml+xml, should be OK in modern browser

   [DanC_desk]
          (anybody got a handy test page for application/xhtml+xml ?)

   [TBray]
          PC: serve as what?
          CL: application/xhtml+xml

   [DanC_desk]
          [30]http://www.w3.org/People/mimasa/test/xhtml/media-types/

     [30] http://www.w3.org/People/mimasa/test/xhtml/media-types/

   [TBray]
          DC, CL: it's OK to use foreign namespace attributes in an
          xhtml+xml doc

   [Zakim]
          TBray, you wanted to get unlost

   [TBray]
          TB: I favor the shorter attribute-based syntax
          TBL: can mention previous syntax?

   [Ian]
          Summarizing actions:
          Action PC: Give points for potential finding
          Action TB: Continue working on draft and to get statement from
          Jonathan re: persistence at rddl.org
          Action TB: Add pointer to previous syntax in the Note

   [DanC_desk]
          (we talked about the syntax of the [31]http://rddl.org/
          document changing too, but that can be asynchronous)

     [31] http://rddl.org/

   [TBray]
          PC: do we now go back and change the language in webarch about
          alternate forms
          CL: yes, maybe
          DC: yes, but in some cases the Owl doc is optimal
          SW: likes the Bristol compromise

   [DanC_desk]
          yes, what's in the arch doc is right

   [TBray]

   TBL: likes the status quo

  2.3 Web Architecture Document Last Call

     * Issues that are open and that we expect to close by the end of
       last call:
          + [32]rdfmsQnameUriMapping-6
          + [33]whenToUseGet-7
          + [34]contentTypeOverride-24
     * Review and acknowledge comments sent to
       [35]public-webarch-comments@w3.org
     * Action IJ 2004/02/09: Incorporate editorial suggestions (see
       minutes of that meeting for details).
     * Action NW 2004/02/09: Respond to Hammond's comments in light of
       TAG discussion.
     * Action PC 2004/02/09: Respond to Tom Worthington's comments in
       light of TAG discussion. [36]Done. [37]Reviewer satisfied that TAG
       has done due diligence, but unhappy with outcome
     * Action PC 2004/02/09: Respond to Martin D?rst, acknowledging the
       dependency ([38]Done).
     * Action TBL 2004/02/09: Respond to David Booth on TAG's choice of
       agent - the status quo.
     * Action SW 2004/02/09: Propose to the TAG a reponse to Patrick
       Stickler's message. ([39]Done)

     [32] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html?view=normal&closed=1#rdfmsQnameUriMapping-6
     [33] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html?view=normal&closed=1#whenToUseGet-7
     [34] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html?view=normal&closed=1#contentTypeOverride-24
     [35] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/
     [36] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0014.html
     [37] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0019.html
     [38] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0016.html
     [39] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2004Feb/0124.html

    2.3.1 Peter Patel-Schneider

    1. [40]Comments from Peter Patel-Schneider
    2. Many of the comments concern notions of authority and ownership;
       see related [41]comment from David Booth about ns documents.

     [40] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0010.html

   [TBray]

          SW: Re: Strickler's comments

   [Stuart]
          Section 4.5.4: "It is disappointing to see the TAG continuing
          to promote the idea that any semantics associated with a URI
          used as a namespace name has any relation whatsoever to the
          semantics of terms grounded in that namespace."

   [TBray]
          DC: disagrees with the notion that nothing more need be said,
          because saying nothing has had negative consequences
          TB: Patrick's position has for a long time been that namespaces
          are pure syntax/punctuation
          PC: seems to disagree with our opinion that human-readable doc
          is useful
          ... discussion too fast for scribe...
          is it the case that namespace is just another ersource
          DC: I don't think we disagree with him, he's just saying that
          we don't want to discuss this at length. But we think
          discussing it at length is useful

   [Ian]
          DC: Patrick's point has technical merit; but there is social
          benefit to explanation.

   [Stuart]
          Defn of NS Document from Webarch: Namespace document
          The resource identified by a namespace URI.

   [Chris]
          sounds like agreement to me

   [DanC_desk]
          hmm... indeed, the glossary entry is goofy

   [Ian]
          DC: Fix - it's what you get back when you dereference.

   [TBray]
          TB: strongly disagree with PS's paragraph beginning
          "Furthermore, because..."; I think that when you use a URI as a
          namespace name, you've created a resource and you better make
          sure it has something to do with the vocaublary
          ... discussion of the glossary entry....
          TB: if you disagree with glossary entry, provide alternate text

   [Chris]

   the detailed reading is indeed gratifying

    2.3.2 Sandro Hawke

    1. [42]Comments from Sandro Hawke

     [42] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0018.html

    2.3.3 Dominique Hazael-Massieux

    1. [43]Comments from Dominique Hazael-Massieux
    2. [44]Comments about metadata
    3. [45]Comments about conformance

     [43] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0020.html
     [44] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0024.html
     [45] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0023.html

    2.3.4 Danny Weitzner

    1. [46]Comments from Danny Weitzner

     [46] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0022.html

    2.3.5 David Booth

    1. [47]Question about ns docs providing definitive info

     [47] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0026.html

    2.3.6 Sergio Rodrigues

    1. [48]Question about XDI and XRI w.r.t. Webarch

     [48] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0028.html

    2.3.7 Jacek Kopecky

    1. [49]AWWW LC comments

     [49] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0030.html

    2.3.8 Martin D?rst

    1. [50]principles, etc.

     [50] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webarch-comments/2004Feb/0031.html

     _________________________________________________________________

   The TAG does not expect to discuss the topics below this line.

4. Follow-up on Internationalization Issues

     * [51]charmodReview-17
         1. [52]actions
         2. TAG finding related to adoption of Charmod? See [53]mail from
            TBL
     * [54]URIEquivalence-15
     * [55]IRIEverywhere-27

     [51] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#charmodReview-17
     [52] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/actions.html#charmodReview-17
     [53] http://www.w3.org/mid/361483C6-96E6-11D7-9C47-000393914268@w3.org
     [54] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html?view=normal&closed=1#URIEquivalence-15
     [55] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#IRIEverwhere-27

5. Status report on these findings

   See also [56]TAG findings
     * [57]abstractComponentRefs-37:
          + 30 Oct 2003 draft finding "[58]Abstract Component References"
     * [59]contentPresentation-26:
          + 30 June 2003 draft finding "[60]Separation of semantic and
            presentational markup, to the extent possible, is
            architecturally sound"
     * [61]metadataInURI-31
     * [62]siteData-36
          + "[63]There is no such thing as a Web site"

     [56] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/findings
     [57] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#abstractComponentRefs-37
     [58] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/abstractComponentRefs-20031030
     [59] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/open-summary.html#contentPresentation-26
     [60] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/contentPresentation-26-20030630.html
     [61] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/open-summary.html#metadataInURI-31
     [62] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#siteData-36
     [63] http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2004/01/08/WebSite36

6. Other action items

     * Action RF 2003/10/08: Explain "identifies" in RFC 2396.
     * Action DC 2003/11/15: Follow up on KeepPOSTRecords with Janet Daly
       on how to raise awareness of this point (which is in CUAP).
     * Action CL 2003/10/27: Draft XML mime type thingy with Murata-san

     _________________________________________________________________


    Ian Jacobs for Stuart Williams and TimBL
    Last modified: $Date: 2004/02/24 22:51:35 $

-- 
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org)   http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Tel:                     +1 718 260-9447




