docno="lists-086-3452770"
received="Thu Jul 25 14:51:40 2002"
isoreceived="20020725185140"
sent="Thu, 25 Jul 2002 14:48:27 -0400"
isosent="20020725184827"
name="Ian B. Jacobs"
email="ij@w3.org"
subject="Raw minutes of 25 July 2002 UAWG teleconference"
id="3D4047FB.2050405@w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org


UAWG teleconference, 25 Jul 2002

Agenda announcement:
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0045

Participants: Jon Gunderson (Chair), Ian Jacobs (Scribe),
Harvey Bingham, Tim Lacy, Matt May, David Poehlman, Eric Hansen,
Rich Schwerdtfeger

Absent: Jim Allan

Regrets: Jill Thomas, Lee Bateman

Previous meeting: 14 July 2002
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0020

Next meeting: 8 August, 2pm ET
  Regrets: TL

Reference document 8 July 2002 Working Draft
   http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/WD-UAAG10-20020708/

==========
Discussion
==========

1. Comments on 8 July UAAG working draft
    http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/WD-UAAG10-20020708/

Comments from Harvey:
   http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0044

Comments from Rich on Guideline 6 (Techniques):
   http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0047

DP: I may be able to do a review over the weekend.
TL: I don't have any significant comments to add.
JG: I have sent all substantial comments I wanted to said.
MM: I don't expect to send comments.

Eric Hansen has sent a marked-up copy to Ian; discussion offline.

Resolved:

  * Change priority definitions to remove must/should/may. Each
    checkpoint provision is a "must" anyway.

  * E.g., change P1 definition from:

    "This checkpoint must be satisfied by user agents, otherwise
    one or more groups of users with disabilities will find it
    impossible to access the Web."

    to:

    "If the user agent doesn't satisfy the checkpoint,
    one or more groups of users with disabilities will find it
    impossible to access the Web."

Resolved:

  * Checkpoint 2.10: Delete "pre-recorded spoken text" since this
    is not a problem we have really encountered. The known issue
    we have dealt with for this checkpoint is: screen readers and
    visually rendered garbage.

-----------
Conformance
-----------

EH: In the section on "Conformance profiles" we use the term
"valid conformance profile". Should be "well-formed" instead.

IJ: I agree. I will change this.

-----------
Glossary
-----------

EH: Equivalents are a major class of conditional
content.

IJ: I think of these as being on two different
axes. Some equivalents may not be part of conditional content
(though often one of the pair is).

========================================
2. Last call scheduling and expectations
========================================

JG: Can IJ will produce another draft for UAWG *editorial*
review?

IJ: I will try to have a revision by 1 August (since IJ, JG, MM,
and Colin Coteles meeting 2 August in Chicago).

JG: It would be good for the UAWG to see both the implementation
report and the UAAG 1.0 before we agree to go to last call.

Unanimously resolved: Go to last call with editorially modified
version of 8 July 2002 draft plus other WG resolutions since
then. Expect to go to last call between 12 and 16 August until 20
September (on request from HTML WG).

IJ: Expected to review the document: DOM WG, HTML WG, Forms WG,
I18N WG.

IJ: I will make clear in last call review announcement that
we are only expecting comments on changes from CR draft.

MM: I won't be around for the few weeks after the end of last
call.

========================================
3. Draft test suites
========================================
JG: I invite your review of these draft test suites:
     http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/TS/uaag-html401-testsuite

TL: I'm using the implementation report! It's very helpful.

IJ: Your feedback on the usability of the reports, or suggested
additions welcome.

=================
Open action items
=================

IJ: Add GECKO-API as reference in 6.4 as well as 6.2.
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0020.html

IJ: Modifications to Checkpoint 4.1
Change second sentence in bullet one to "Text rendered at different 
sizes
should scale proportionally."
Clarify that rounding may occur and is appearing.
Clarify that 4.1-4.3 are for content only by adding "content" to 
provision one.
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0020.html

IJ: Review whether to add word "content" in remaining checkpoints where
content only is meant.
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0020.html

IJ: In second sufficient technique, delete "so that the user may 
position
them independently."
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0020.html

IJ: - Add a statement to 6.2 in normative exclusion that exporting 
out of
process may be useful.
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0020.html

IJ: For checkpoint 4.14: Indicate in Note that allowing the user to 
select
more than one style sheet may be a useful way to implement other
requirements of this document. Also, if the user agent offers several
default style sheets, the user agent can also use these to satisfy some
requirements (e.g., available on the Web; this would allow user 
agents to
improve accessiblity of deployed user agents).
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0020.html

JG: Write up user scenarios for why non-text-based highlighting 
important
for users; notably which users.
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002AprJun/0027.html
See for additional questions:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002AprJun/0029.html

JG: Add implementation of Checkpoint 3.1 from Konqueror
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002AprJun/0177.html

JG: Add user style sheets for outline view requirements in Konqueror,
Opera, Amaya and IE to implementation report for Checkpoint 10.5 
Outline view
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002AprJun/0177.html

JG: Acrobat 5.0 generates a navigation view, so implementation of
Checkpoint 10.5
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002AprJun/0177.html

JG: Add user style sheets as an implementation of configuring 
outline view,
checkpoint 9.10
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002AprJun/0177.html

JG: Add implementation of 5.3 Manual viewport open with Mozilla, 
Konqueror
and Snufin
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002AprJun/0177.html

JG: Add to implementation report of Checkpoint 4.4:
PlexTalk by Plextor (audio, http://www.plextalk.org/)
Victor Reader by VisuAide (audio, http://www.visuaide.com/dtbsol.html)
Victor Soft reader by VisuAide (audio, 
http://www.visuaide.com/dtbsol.html)
LpPlayer by Labyrinten (audio, 
http://www.labyrinten.se/english/index.html)
eNounce (audio and video, http://www.enounce.com/)
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002AprJun/0177.html

======================
Completed Action Items
======================

JG: Contact Lofton Henderson to schedule meeting to look at Colin's 
test
suite progress.
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0020.html
Done: In process of seeing how many QA people can come

TL: Send to the UAWG a pointer to text about the functionalities 
available
through MSAA for access to rendering information (for techniques for 
6.4)
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0020.html
Done: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0019.html

DP: Contact Loretta for information about how Adobe implements MSAA 
to get
or provide information about rendered information in Acrobat Reader 
(for
example).
Source: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-ua/2002JulSep/0020.html


-- 
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org)   http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Tel:                     +1 718 260-9447



