docno="lists-077-9264675"
received="Sat Sep  1 05:53:27 2001"
isoreceived="20010901095327"
sent="Sat, 1 Sep 2001 10:56:45 +0100"
isosent="20010901095645"
name="Paul Davis"
email="paul@ten-20.com"
subject="RE: unemployment and disabled"
id="000001c132cc$68a75b00$0200a8c0@paul2"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="5.1.0.14.2.20010831183920.00a896a0&#64;mail.spiretech.com"
expires="-1"

To:"Terry Brainerd Chadwick"<tbchad@tbchad.com>,<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>
Cc:<andy@ten-20.com>


Interesting point regarding unemployment, one of the sites I helped into
existence was Dish, the Disability Information Service for Hertfordshire, (I
still host but they now run it themselves....evolution!!) They are currently
running a 2 year program called DEOS (disability employer outreach service)
funded by the EEC social fund. The aim is to contact and advise potential
employers on the DDA and assist with advice on what basic requirements are
needed in the workplace. Also any Government help that is available to
employ disabled people. The objective being to get people off state
benifits, out of rehab (there are just so many wooden boxes and baskets a
person wants to make!!) and into gainfull employment.

http://www.dish4info.co.uk/deos/index.html

I plan a commercial job agency to work along side Dish's Deos project. So
DEOS having got agreement to employ disabled people, Ten-20 provides those
people. I had hoped to bring in a national Job agency to administer to this,
thus avoiding duplication of infastructure and costs. Brick wall here!! So
my reach and development is limited to Hertfordshire and my pocket again. Oh
well, so no change there then, or in my pockets!

Interestingly I found in my talks with employers and disabled people there
seems to be a stalemate here i.e. Large national and international employers
say (no reason to doubt them) no disabled people apply for advertised
postions, and the disabled people say they are fed up with knock backs
because they are disabled. I hope to snaffle jobs before they are advertised
and present potential employers with a list of candiates.......Is that
discrimitory?!!! Lets call it positive discrimination.

smiles
Paul Davis


-



