docno="lists-060-1939218"
received="Wed Aug 14 21:11:22 2002"
isoreceived="20020815011122"
sent="Thu, 15 Aug 2002 11:11:11 +1000"
isosent="20020815011111"
name="Liddy Nevile"
email="Liddy.Nevile@motile.net"
subject="F2F meeting in Florence in Oct???"
id="a0510030ab980ae8966b9@[210.10.141.206]"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To: IMS Accessibility Forum<IMS_Accessibility@collegis.org>, W3C WAI-AU<w3c-wai-au@w3.org>


I have managed to secure a reasonable amount of time for 
accessibility at the DC2002 meeting in October and am wondering if we 
should schedule a joint F2F for this time as well? There are times 
planned for the mornings when it would be convenient to have such 
meetings without disturbing people's opportunities to participate in 
the rest of the conference.

My work plan for the DC-Accessibility Interest group is to charter a 
working group to develop a DC-accessibility metadata tag, based on 
W3C work, esp EARL. I believe that changing the IMS metadata will not 
be a fast process as it will involve working through the IEE-LOM 
metadata process and so expect people to adopt a DC tag in the 
meantime if we can develop it quickly. I think we can do this but it 
would be very good to do it as a collaborative effort with W3C, IMS 
input, DC input, of course, and Daisy input.

For details of the DC-conf, please see http://www.bncf.net/dc2002/

Liddy



