docno="lists-081-0401427"
received="Sun Mar 21 11:21:00 2004"
isoreceived="20040321162100"
sent="Sun, 21 Mar 2004 16:20:29 +0000 (GMT)"
isosent="20040321162029"
name="Apple Tv"
email="appletvdesign@yahoo.co.uk"
subject="Re: [WAI-IG] Serving my page in the right language"
id="20040321162029.16861.qmail@web25110.mail.ukl.yahoo.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="1079817677.2332.48.camel&#64;localhost"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org


 Regarding the User Agents, I don't believe that we
should section off communities by pigeon holing groups
of English/German/French users together, purely
because of a specific User Agent. 

 This could only be done efficiently when all browsers
have a visible and accessible option for isers to
change their browsing language on the Agent. I would
imaging this to be done using different requests for
Uni-code. 

 For example, My Girlfriends mother is far from
web'savy'. She is an in experienced user who ventures
forth on to the web only in the hour of need. Her
first language is Mandarin but she speaks fluent
English and browses with Internet Explorer v.6. If She
had any idea that a page were available in her first
language she would prefer for it to be displayed that
way but as she has no knowledge of this, she makes do.


 Until the actual User Agents compensate for A
multitude of language, it is unfair for designers to
decide a users preference based on circumstantial
evidence of a specific User Agent.


=====

www.appletv.co.uk





___________________________________________________________
Yahoo! Messenger - Communicate instantly..."Ping" 
your friends today! Download Messenger Now 
http://uk.messenger.yahoo.com/download/index.html



