docno="lists-086-12449390"
received="Thu Sep 11 20:40:39 1997"
isoreceived="19970912004039"
sent="Fri, 12 Sep 1997 10:40:33 +1000 (AEST)"
isosent="19970912004033"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
subject="Re: Dave Raggett: Re: IMG ALT attribute in HTML 4.0 (fwd)"
id="Pine.SUN.3.95.970912103022.10077A-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="3.0.32.19970911153217.0075f7e8&#64;ma.ultranet.com"
expires="-1"

To: WAI Working Group<w3c-wai-wg@w3.org>


On balance, I do not think at this stage that it would be appropriate to
add a LONGDESC attribute to IMG. Image maps can already be made partially
accessible by means of the ALT attribute which can provide a textual label
for each of the sensitive areas on a client-side map. I think we should
accept that this is the maximum degree of accessibility which can be
achieved by means of the IMG element, and encourage authors to take
advantage of the greater flexibility of OBJECT so soon as compatible
software is available and widely deployed. It is important to recognise
that a LONGDESC attribute is not supported by any existing user agent, and
that even if it were incorporated into HTML 4.0, it would not be supported
by future user agents until the HTML 4.0 compliant versions were released.
I doubt that manufacturers are likely to make available intermediate
versions of their software which support LONGDESC but are in other
respects not HTML 4.0 compliant. Rather, they will release and widely
publicise the HTML 4.0 compatible versions of their applications, which
will support OBJECT in any case. Hence LONGDESC is superfluous and
unnecessary.

I also concur with Al's point that it would be best to concentrate the
WAI's educational effort on promotion of the long term solution, rather
than encouraging authors to adopt an interim approach which has already
been rendered obsolete in principle.



