docno="lists-108-7009614"
received="Tue Apr  6 04:31:59 2004"
isoreceived="20040406083159"
sent="Tue, 6 Apr 2004 04:31:28 -0400 (EDT)"
isosent="20040406083128"
name="Gerald Bauer"
email="luxorxul@yahoo.ca"
subject="XUL Grand Coding Challenge 2004 Invitation - Last Call"
id="20040406083128.26155.qmail@web40811.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:www-forms@w3.org


Hello,

   I invite you to sign-up for the XUL Grand Coding
Challenge 2004. 
  
   The XUL Grand Coding Challenge is a good
opportunity to promote your XUL/XUI/XAML/XForms
toolkit/parser/runtime/player/etc.

   For example, Marc Clifton will write-up an article
for the Code Project site.

   I will write-up articles for the Richmond Post, the
XUL News Wire, and so on and also bundle-up a package
for easy download such as challenge04.zip or similar
that includes all examples plus readme docs.

    So far the sign-up line-up includes:

    * Gerald Bauer - Luxor XUL Toolkit - See
http://luxor-xul.sourceforge.net 
    * Marc Clifton - MyXAML - See http://myxaml.com
    * Arron Ferguson - Purnama XUI - See
http://geekkit.bcit.ca/xui/web
    * Charles Goodwin - Ibex (formerly XWT) - See
http://www.xwt.org
    * Adam Kinney - Microsoft Longhorn/Avalon XAML -
See http://longhorn.msdn.microsoft.com
    * Paul Colton - Xamlon (XAML Today.) - See
http://www.xamlon.com
    * Pierre Dezon - xWidglets - See
http://xwidglets.secretgate.com
    * Luan O'Carroll - Xoetrope XUI - See
http://xui.sourceforge.net
    * Mathew McBride - Jazilla NG - See
http://www.jazilla.org
    * Wenzel Jakob - Beryl - See
http://xmlgui.tigris.org
    * Wolf Paulus - SwixML - See http://www.swixml.org
    * Jon Lipsky - XMLFace - See
http://www.xesoft.com/products/xmlface

   See the Wiki page for more @
http://xul.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/XulChallenge


    If you're interested in signing up or if you have
any questions please let me know. Note, that we will
kick off the XUL Grand Coding Challenge 2004 next
week. So if want to get included don't delay. Sign up
now.

   - Gerald
        
-------------------
Gerald Bauer
Open XUL Alliance - A Rich Internet For Everyone |
http://xul.sourceforge.net  
XUL News Wire | http://news.gmane.org/gmane.comp.lang.xul.announce

______________________________________________________________________ 
Post your free ad now! http://personals.yahoo.ca



