docno="lists-066-15869733"
received="Sat Dec 11 06:43:30 1999"
isoreceived="19991211114330"
sent="Sat, 11 Dec 1999 06:35:14 -0500"
isosent="19991211113514"
name="Robert Neff"
email="robneff@home.com"
subject="Example of Macromedia"
id="006901bf43cb$cab45060$cef80d18@alex1.va.home.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="85256843.007433BE.00&#64;d54mta08.raleigh.ibm.com"
expires="-1"


To:<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>
Cc:"Work-Robert Neff"<Robert.Neff@usmint.treas.gov>,"Judy Brewer"<jbrewer@w3.org>,<w3c-wai-eo@w3.org>,<asgilman@access.digex.net>

Would like to thank everyone for their support for their reviews and
comments on how to make Macromedia accessible or at least support the
attempt.

We have a test site for an interactive map that enables people to track
where they found the new dollar coin.  We have one program, the 50 state
quarters, that has an interactive map.  This provides a way to report where
you found a quarter, visually see where it was found on a map of the united
states and a particular state - both in visual and text format.  See
http://www1.usmint.gov/50states/fsq/main.cfm for a demonstration on a
production server.

This concept or process has been applied to golden dollar program which is
the new name for he United States' new dollar coin scheduled to release this
fall.   You are cordially invited to review the and test the site.  Please
note, this is on a development site and is not live SO PLEASE DO NOT
DISTRIBUTE this URL outside the WAI groups or trusted sources and do not
distribute to the Interest Group. Also the graphics have not been changed
yet from the 50 States Quarters to the Golden Dollar.

You may enter your find (just pretend you found one) and if you are the
first person who to report a find for the golden dollar, you can enter
comments on how you found it.

The URL is http://207.153.198.240/usmint/dollarcoin/gdim/main.cfm and use
the oprion "WAI GL and IG Group Test for Macromedia"

I am looking for a variety of browsers to include Lynx, JAWS, Winvision, and
IBM Home Reader (Phil? <smile>)

I thank you in advance for your comments, rob   AND PLS REPLY TO MY WORK
ADDRESS (see copy above or rneff@usmint.treas.gov)



