docno="lists-022-13747697"
received="Thu Aug  7 13:57:14 2003"
isoreceived="20030807175714"
sent="Thu, 7 Aug 2003 13:57:12 -0400"
isosent="20030807175712"
name="Glenn A. Adams"
email="glenn@xfsi.com"
subject="Minutes - 07/17/03 Telecon"
id="7249D02C4D2DFD4D80F2E040E8CAF37C03BCCA@longxuyen.xfsi.com"
charset="utf-8"
expires="-1"


To:"W3C TT Public"<public-tt@w3.org>



Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 07/17/03

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM) [GF1]
  David Kirby (BBC) [DK]
  Sean Hayes (Microsoft) [SH]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]

Regrets

  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]
  Mike Dolan (Invited Expert) [MD]
  Markus Gylling (Daisy) [MG]

Absent

  Gerry Field (WGBH/NCAM) [GF2]
  Markku Hakkinen (JSRPD) [MH]
  George Kerscher (Daisy) [GK]
  Brad Botkin (WGBH/NCAM) [BB]

************************************************************************
Agenda
************************************************************************

1. Action Item Review
2. Open Issues
3. Review of New Draft of TT-AF-1-0-REQ

************************************************************************
1. Action Items Review
************************************************************************

Action: [GA] To construct table of features/requirements for which we
need a volunteer to provide example(s). Also solicit examples based
on existing systems, such as 3GPP, AML, SAMI, etc.

Open.

Action: [GA] Change second para of last note of S001 to change
"hearing impaired" to "deaf and hard of hearing".

Done.

Action: [GA] Add note under S001 saying that some communities use the
term Subtitling to encompass both uses described here (i.e.,
captioning and subtitling per S000 and S001).

Done.

Action: [GA] Ask SVG WG to comment on TT AF REQ WD.

Done.

Action: [GA] Craft new text for R221 based on above. Remove
vocabulary.  Leave in informative note refering to TEI as possible
source.

Done.

Action: [GA] Remove editorial notes under R501-R503 without any
further change. These notes are part of the process of defining
solution space.

Done.

Action: [GA] Add display style property to R505, and add note that
animation of some properties require reflow (relayout) of content,
e.g., display property.

Done.

Action: [GA] Close issue I004; resolution: permit animation of styles
that cause reflow.

Done.

Action: [GA] Add note to N506 explaining that "animation of content"
means to change element content via animation, e.g., adding/changing
text() or element children nodes.

Done.

Action: [GA] Add note under introduction "Don't Panic! You may not
have to deal with complicated feature X because we plan to profile
via documents types." [Sean's suggestion.]

Done.

Action: [GA] I005 is closed by virtual of removal of R606.

Done.

Action: [GA] I006 is closed by virtual of removal of R607.

Done.

Action: [DS] Will contribute a 3GPP Timed Text example.

Done.

Action: [SH] Will cook AML example as SAMI as a variant example.

Open.

Action: [MG] Will contribute Daisy timed text example.

Open. GA will contact MG to ask if MH can supply or otherwise get us
this example.

Action: [GA] Will contribute some examples showing generic timed text.

Open.

Action: [JB] Will check if he can contribute examples.

Done.

Action: [TM] Will contribute generic example.

Open. Will work on animation example.

Action: [GA] Ask XSL-FO Subgroup on their opinion on this
decision (to use break-{before,after} with value "line").

Done.

************************************************************************
2. Open Issue Review
************************************************************************

Issue (I0306-001): Should we support any "float" related style
properties since we allow embedded inline and block graphics?

Closed. See previous telecon minutes for resolution.

Issue (I0306-002: Whether to enhance R403 to include repeat, restart,
fill, and endsync parameters?

Closed. See previous telecon minutes for resolution.

************************************************************************
3. Review of New Draft of TT-AF-1-0-REQ
************************************************************************

Action: [EH] Provide input on typos.

Action: [GA] Rewrite paragraph <-> block mapping in R211 now that we've
removed paragraph.

Action: [GA] Add to 2nd note under R306 that break-* applies to inline
vocabulary.

Action: [GA] Draft System Model (Section 1.2) and accept redlines to
produce next draft.

Action: [GA] Draft outline for TT-AF-1-0 document. Solicit volunteers
to begin drafting sections.

************************************************************************
4. Discuss BBC Examples
************************************************************************

[**] Some problems accessing bbcchildrenshospital2.mpg; some people
aren't seeing this in auto index of directory.

Action: [GA] Put index.html (or equiv) into aml directory to fix.

[DK] Two separate examples (1 East Ender and 2 Children's Hospital). AML
files contains original script with word timing the subtitles created
from this info.

************************************************************************
Next Meeting
************************************************************************

Next teleconference will be on 07/31.

Action: [TM] To change option on F2F registration to not send
confirmation to member list.

************************************************************************
ADJOURNS at 1255h Eastern Time (US)
************************************************************************

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

None.

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [GA] To construct table of features/requirements for which we
need a volunteer to provide example(s). Also solicit examples based
on existing systems, such as 3GPP, AML, SAMI, etc.

Action: [SH] Will cook AML example as SAMI as a variant example.

Action: [MG] Will contribute Daisy timed text example.

Action: [GA] Will contribute some examples showing generic timed text.

Action: [TM] Will contribute generic example.

Action: [EH] Provide input on typos.

Action: [GA] Rewrite paragraph <-> block mapping in R211 now that we've
removed paragraph.

Action: [GA] Add to 2nd note under R306 that break-* applies to inline
vocabulary.

Action: [GA] Draft System Model (Section 1.2) and accept redlines to
produce next draft.

Action: [GA] Draft outline for TT-AF-1-0 document. Solicit volunteers
to begin drafting sections.

Action: [GA] Put index.html (or equiv) into aml directory to fix.

Action: [TM] To change option on F2F registration to not send
confirmation to member list.

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

None

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



