docno="lists-050-14474622"
received="Thu Mar 21 09:56:52 2002"
isoreceived="20020321145652"
sent="Thu, 21 Mar 2002 14:54:44 +0000"
isosent="20020321145444"
name="Brian McBride"
email="bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
subject="Re: Telecon draft minutes: 2002-03-15"
id="5.1.0.14.0.20020321145310.00a9d2c8@0-mail-1.hpl.hp.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="Pine.GSO.4.44.0203181128350.14560-100000&#64;mail.ilrt.bris.ac .uk"
expires="-1"


To: Jan Grant<Jan.Grant@bristol.ac.uk>, RDFCore Working Group<w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org>

Some of the action id's are duplicated.  I've straightened them out in my 
action list; just put them in numerical order of occurrence.

Item 17: Issue rdfms-xml-literal-namespaces

As I recall, the proposal was approved.

Brian




At 12:58 18/03/2002 +0000, Jan Grant wrote:
>RDFCore WG minutes for the telecon 2002-03-15
>
>Transcript:
>         http://ilrt.org/discovery/chatlogs/rdfcore/2002-03-15
>Agenda:
>         http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2002Mar/0210.html
>
>Roll call -
>
>Participants:
>
>Participants:
>    - Dave Beckett
>    - Jeremey Carroll
>    - Ron Daniel
>    - Mike Dean
>    - Jos De Roo
>    - Jan Grant (scribe)
>    - Pat Hayes
>    - Martin Horner
>    - Graham Klyne
>    - Frank Manola
>    - Brian McBride (chair)
>    - Eric Miller
>    - Patrick Stickler
>    - Aaron Swartz
>
>(Mark Butler also present from HP labs as an observer of W3 telecon best
>practice :-)
>
>Regrets:
>    Dan Brickley, Dan Connolly, Sergei Melnik, Steve Petschulat
>
>Absent:
>    Frank Boumphrey, Bill dehOra, Rael Dornfest,
>    Yoshiyuki Kitahara, Michael Kopchenov, Kwon Hyung-Jin,
>    Ora Lassila, Satoshi Nakamura, Pierre Richard, Guha
>
>
>Review agenda -
>
>    Eric tabled AOB (to discuss move of irc service, see below)
>
>
>Next telecon -
>
>    Same time, 10am Boston time, 22 March 2002 (NOT 29th as in agenda)
>
>
>Last week's minutes -
>         http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2002Mar/0125.html
>    APPROVED
>
>
>Confirm status of completed actions -
>    ALL CONFIRMED.
>
>
>Item 8: June F2F
>
>    The next F2F will be in June, 17/18th in Bristol (UK). Venue to be
>    negotiated between ILRT and HP.
>
>
>Item 9: Status of primer WD
>
>    After a brief diversion on the semantics of "publish"...
>    APPROVED (no dissent): the WG approved the publishing of the current
>    primer as a working draft.
>
>    ACTION 2002-03-15#1 (em) to drive this process.
>
>    ACTION 2002-03-15#2 (frankm) to sign up to rdf-comment mailing list
>     (address to which feedback will be solicited)
>
>
>Item 10: Open E-Book forum
>
>    Patrick Stickler gave some more information about Open E-Book; in
>    particular, that they are going to be using RDF as the basis for
>    their packaging format; they're currently looking at using RDF for
>    their core metadata encoding.
>
>    Pat S' email about the packaging format:
>         http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2002Mar/0128.html
>    And more information:
>         http://www.xpackage.org/
>
>
>Item 11: XML Base test cases
>
>    The initial proposal was to approve these, as per modifications here:
>         http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2002Mar/0162.html
>         http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2002Mar/0167.html
>
>    DaveB and Jos both indicated that test017 and error001 were still
>    unclear. (But test017 wasn't crucial to this case)
>
>    APPROVED: the WG accepted tests 1-16.
>
>    ACTION 2002-03-15#3 (jang) update test cases to reflect approval
>     (this action applies to the approval of items 12 and 13 too)
>
>    ACTION 2002-03-15#4 (bwm) arrange resolution of test017 and error001
>
>
>Item 12: Issue rdfms-not-id-and-resource-attr
>
>    Review test cases at
> 
>http://www.w3.org/2000/10/rdf-tests/rdfcore/rdfms-not-id-and-resource-attr/
>
>    DaveB and Jos both said these looked OK.
>    APPROVED (no dissent): the WG accepts these test cases.
>
>    ACTION 2002-03-15#3 (jang) update test cases to reflect approval
>
>
>Item 13: Issue rdfms-nested-bagID
>
>    Review test cases at:
>         http://www.w3.org/2000/10/rdf-tests/rdfcore/rdfms-nested-bagIDs/
>
>    DaveB: (IIRC) these were OK; Jos: happy too.
>    APPROVED (no dissent): the WG approves these test cases.
>
>    ACTION 2002-03-15#3 (jang) update test cases to reflect approval
>
>
>Item 14: Updated n-triples notation for literals
>
>    See:
>         http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2002Mar/0092.html
>         http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2002Mar/0182.html
>
>    Jos indicated that his N3/ntriples parser was having trouble with the
>    changes.
>    DaveB indicated that he'd rather move on and then come back to revise
>    the syntax if necessary; was eager for progress.
>    APPROVED: the WG approved Dave's suggestion.
>
>    ACTION 2002-03-15#5 (daveb) to go ahead with current format, to use
>         with any new fancy literals in test cases
>
>
>Item 15: Datatypes
>
>    Jeremy indicated that I18N people were somewhat divided on the
>    language/locale issue; they're all looking for guidance, however.
>    PatH indicated that if the only DTing mechanism was a constraint
>    on lexical forms, there would be "howls of protest" (including his).
>    There was some agreement with this.
>    Brian asked if there were compelling use cases to establish the
>    need for a better mechanism.
>
>    ACTION 2002-03-15#6 (pat h) to integrate Pat S' XML examples into
>         his document
>
>    ACTION 2002-03-15#7 (pat h) remove references to octal, different
>         language representations
>
>    Discussion of Jeremy's entailment to be taken to email.
>
>
>Item 16: Contexts, quoting, unasserted triples
>
>    PatH: the "next" language (OWL) has problems layering on top of
>    RDF. We could vastly alleviate these problems by allowing collections
>    of triples to exist as part of a graph, but not asserted.
>    That is, to stick them in some sort of "contextual bubble".
>    Discussion followed on reasons to do this.
>
>    ACTION 2002-03-15#8 (pat h) write up this simple proposal in email
>
>    FrankM also insisted that we show strong willingness to work with
>    people to resolve this; the emphasis on "work with" - ie, sit down
>    and talk in detail about it.
>
>    ACTION 2002-03-15#8 (bwm) to figure out a way to get webont knowing
>         that we want to cooperate
>         [action quoted verbatim from transcript]
>
>
>Item 17: Issue rdfms-xml-literal-namespaces
>
>    The discussion was based around the following set of proposals:
>
>    - the exact form of the string value corresponding to any given XML
>      Literal within RDF/XML is implementation dependent.
>
>    - the string value is well-balanced XML
>
>    - taking the exclusive canonicalization of both the original XML
>      Literal in its containing document, and the string value of the
>      literal produce the same character string.  This will be used as
>      the basis for test cases.
>
>    - the canonicalization above is without comments
>    Jeremy stressed that CONFORMANCE should be tested without comments;
>    dropping comments was NOT mandatory.
>
>    - this issue is closed
>
>    - to raise a comment on the XQuery/XPath 2.0 data model that it
>      does not adequately address the handling of namespace prefixes
>      appearing in attribute values.
>
>    There was no disagreement to this set of proposals.
>
>    ACTION 2002-03-15#9 (jeremy) raise a comment on xquery/xpath about
>         corner case on behalf of rdfcore
>
>
>The meeting was cut short due to a lack of time, but the WG discussed
>Eric's AOB.
>
>AOB: Move rdfcore discussion to W3C server.
>
>    Eric outlined that the W3C server would serve just as well and would
>    permit the delegation of some administrivia to Zakim, the new bridge.
>
>    Thus: starting next week, the IRC meeting point for rdfcore will
>    be #rdfcore at irc.w3.org, port 6665 [NB: not the default port!]
>
>    DaveB will continue to provide logs of discussion.
>    #rdfig will remain on openprojects.net
>
>
>--
>jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
>Tel +44(0)117 9287088 Fax +44 (0)117 9287112 RFC822 jan.grant@bris.ac.uk
>Unfortunately, I have a very good idea how fast my keys are moving.



