docno="lists-067-4920711"
received="Thu Jun  8 17:06:50 2000"
isoreceived="20000608210650"
sent="Thu, 08 Jun 2000 17:13:46 -0400"
isosent="20000608211346"
name="Wendy A Chisholm"
email="wendy@w3.org"
subject="Minutes from 8 June 2000 telecon"
id="4.2.0.58.20000608171209.04db1280@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-gl@w3.org

Available on-line at: http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/meetings/20000608.html

8 June 2000 WCAG WG telecon
Summary of action items and resolutions
In progress. Action: CMN and MK checkpoints for MathML.
In progress. Action: WC send issues from techniques doc open issues to the 
list.
Open. Action: JW, GR, WC check out bugzilla as potential issue tracking tool.
Action: WC Investigate JG tool further. Find out about potential security 
issues. Try to get it installed on a W3C machine for testing.
Action: WC combine technology-specific checkpoints as suggested by JW then 
incorporate them into the generalized checkpoints as suggested by CMN.
Resolved: ask IG to discuss Requirements document on IG. Other groups will 
send comments to wai-gl list.Those of us on IG will contribute to the IG 
discussions to keep them focused and moving forward.
Resolved: Send draft Requirements document to other groups for review early 
next week.
Action: WC incorporate GR's corrections to XHTML checkpoints.
Action WL: send the URI to Jonathan's notes to the WCAG WG.

Participants
William Loughborough
Jason White
Wendy Chisholm
Marja-Riitta Koivunen
Dick Brown
Gregory Rosmaita

Regrets
Andi Snow-Weaver
Charles McCathieNevile
Cynthia Shelley
Gregg Vanderheiden

Agenda
Action items from the last meeting.
The latest draft of the requirements document--any comments?
Techniques document, open issues.
Guidelines, checklists and associated deliverables: any issues arising 
before or during the meeting, in so far as we have time to discuss them.

Action items
Done. Refer to note to list on X June 2000. Action: JW draft a comment 
about how the technologies fit together.
In progress. Action: CMN and MK checkpoints for MathML.
Done. Action: JW take issues of ETA to WAI-CG
Done. Action: WC ask Jon Gunderson about UA - can we install it and use it?
Open. Action: JW, GR, WC check out bugzilla as potential issue tracking tool.
Done. Refer to note to list on X June 2000. Action: JW search for other 
issue tracking tools.
In progress. Action: WC send issues from techniques doc open issues to the 
list.
WC Checked with JG about tool. W3C not crazy about installing. Will proceed 
with issues list as is for now. Bugzilla?
GR No time to play with.
JW Documentation mentioned JavaScript. Perhaps install on test server to 
play with. May have time to play with in the near future.
Action WC: Investigate JG tool further. Find out about potential security 
issues. Try to get it installed on a W3C machine for testing.
WC going through techniques open issue.
JW only those that become controversial will get escalated to discussion on 
a telecon.
/* Agreed */
WC CMN suggested combining technology-specific checkpoints with the 
generalized checkpoints that we generated over a couple teleconferences.
JW yes, before do that, combine the technology-specifics, like HTML and CSS 
as suggested in my e-mail last week.
Action: WC combine technology-specific checkpoints as suggested by JW then 
incorporate them into the generalized checkpoints as suggested by CMN.
GR I took an action item to ask Glen Gordon and Mark Hakinnen how they skip 
over blocks of text. In relation to UA navigation mechanisms. They have not 
responded.
WC more of an ER item?
JW take it to UA and ER once you find out?
GR yes.

Draft requirements document for version 2.0
JW any reactions or comments? It is about to go through review by other groups.
WL no.
WC JB and IJ gave me feedback.
JW A few comments, but can't remember exactly what they were. I'll send 
them to the list.
WC We need to send this for review to AU, UA, PF, ER, EO, and IG. Usually 
we say, "please send comments to wai-gl." However, what do people think 
about asking AU, UA, PF, ER and EO to send comments to wai-gl, but ask IG 
to keep comments on wai-ig? The intent is to infuse IG with a high-level 
WCAG discussion in the hopes of brining about ideas that might not have 
come if they are asked to send comments to wai-gl. Also, to raise the level 
of awareness in the IG of where we are headed.
GR we should tell them to cross-post.
JW Groups will usually try to come to consensus and then send comments to 
the group asking for review.
WL IG doesn't work like that. [it should be] Anyone can make a comment and 
it has to be answered.
JW prefer that people send prepared comments. If IG discuss internally and 
formulate a mail with the various points of view.
GR We'll need designated GL trackers for the IG list. They would try to 
shape and guide the discussion. In the end collate something. Pass by IG. 
Send to WCAG.
JW Who is interested in doing that?
WL We're all on there.
Resolved: ask IG to discuss Requirements document on IG. Other groups will 
send comments to wai-gl list. Those of us on IG will contribute to the IG 
discussions to keep them focused and moving forward.
WC when should we send it to the groups?
JW after incorporate comments to JB and IJ?
Resolved: Send draft Requirements document to other groups for review early 
next week.

Techniques document open issues
JW several sent to the list.
Action: WC incorporate GR's corrections to XHTML checkpoints.
JW GV is working on reformulation of guidelines. It will be proposed to the 
list soon. That will allow us to write a first draft.

Face2face meetings
WC Australia in November? Who could make it?
WL possible maybe.
GR possible maybe. Also see if I18N group wanting to meet at the same time. 
Could draw from the Pacific Rim.
WC Need to have more face2face meetings to move revision along quicker. 
Thoughts on dates? places? Conferences we could piggy-back off of? I would 
like to see a long term schedule.
GR Really like the idea of one in Melbourne, especially with WBU we could 
draw some people.
WL I've never seen any mention of South America.
JW W3C tends to concentrate around areas where it has host institutions.
WL Pretoria in August. <grin>
JW One in November is a possibility since RMIT has offered to host the meeting.
WC Getting a core group of people there is an issue. It is not guaranteed 
that WAI will be able to help get people there. Money will be tight for 
this trip.
Other issues?
JW Cognitive has not appeared. We're working to set up a telecon that 
interested parties will be able to attend.
WL Has anyone looked at Jonathan's notes for a talk he gave? They were 
posted to the EO list.
Action WL: send the URI to Jonathan's notes to the WCAG WG.

$Date: 2000/06/08 21:03:30 $ Wendy Chisholm
--
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
madison, wi usa
tel: +1 608 663 6346
/--



