docno="lists-032-3141467"
received="Thu Jun  6 23:06:09 2002"
isoreceived="20020607030609"
sent="Fri, 07 Jun 2002 04:05:43"
isosent="20020607080543"
name="seko moshood"
email="mnseko4@arabia.com"
subject="ASSISTANT TRUSTEE"
id="200206070305.XAA17909@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org


From: Moshood Seko Mobutu

Attn: Managing director/CEO

DEAR Sir,

I am the first son of the late Mobutu Sese Seko, the
former President of the Congo Republic.

I am presently under protective custody in Nigeria as
a political
refugee. I got your contact during my search for a
stranger that can cooperate with me in this mutual
transaction.

I want you to note that this business will benefit
both of us. However, you must confirm your ability to
handle this because it involves a large amount of
money. The money (50 million US DOLLARS is my share of
my father's estate. I boxed and shipped the money to a
security company abroad at the peak of the
war/political crisis that rocked my country few years
ago. Now the crisis has ended and I need a trustworthy
person like you to proceed to the place of the
security company in order to clear the fund and invest
on my behalf as I don?t want my name to be used for
now.

Note that I will send to you the relevant documents
that will enable you take possession of the fund for
onward investment for our mutual benefit. All I need
from you is as follows:

1.A letter of commitment (dully signed) that you will
keep the transaction strictly confidential.

2. Your confirmation of your ability to handle this.

3. Your international passport or driving license
number for identification to the security company.

4. Your telephone and fax numbers for communication.

5. Your full permanent address.

As soon as I get the above information from you, I
will disclose to you the name and the country of the
security company. I will forward your name and
particulars to the security company to enable them
contact you accordingly. I will also send to you a
LETTER OF AUTHORITY to enable you clear the fund on my
behalf. Note that this is a very safe transaction as
this money is my share of my father's estate.

I am waiting for your response to enable us proceed.

Regards,

Moshood Seko Mobutu



