docno="lists-016-1045401"
received="Wed Jul 23 13:19:48 2003"
isoreceived="20030723171948"
sent="Wed, 23 Jul 2003 18:19:04 +0100"
isosent="20030723171904"
name="Richard Ishida"
email="ishida@w3.org"
subject="AGENDA: I18N GEO TF telcon, 2003-0723 at 19:00 UTC, 12noon Pacific, 3pm Eastern, 20:00 UK, 5am Australia (next day!)"
id="000001c3513e$84a08380$6401a8c0@w3c40upc3ma3j2"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To:<public-i18n-geo@w3.org>



AGENDA
I18N GEO TF teleconference


Please feel free to suggest additional items for the agenda.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Day     : Wednesday
Date    : 23 July 2003
Start    : 19:00 UTC, 20:00 UK, 12noon Pacific, 3pm Eastern, 
  5am Australia (next day!)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bridge   : +1-617-761-6200 (Zakim) 
with conference code 4186 (spells "I18N")
Duration : 60-90 minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zakim information    : http://www.w3.org/2002/01/UsingZakim
Zakim bridge monitor : http://www.w3.org/1998/12/bridge/Zakim.html
Zakim IRC bot        : http://www.w3.org/2001/12/zakim-irc-bot.html
------------------------------------------------------------------------


*** indicates a topic that will receive particular attention this week




Draft agenda
============

Review of agenda

Review of actions (see below)

Review of dependencies (see below)

Meetings:
-FTF in Georgia 


New members
-

Info Share
**** [Here you can contribute news or informative titbits about
events, developments, etc that affect our work.  It is information share
only - if processing is needed we should add an agenda item - although
of course clarification questions are allowed.]


Update on framework activity
-input made to wcag language section on today's wcag call

http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/WCAG20/WD-HTMLTECH-20030711.html#language-tech
RI action to request emphasis on primary language declaration
RI action to send information about language code values
RI action to send information about where xml:lang is described


Last chance Q&A Review
****Lloyd's contribution: aiming for immediate publication
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jul/0036.html



Next week's Q&A Review
****Tex's contribution
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jul/0015.html


Guidelines review
****Andrew's proposal for addition to guidelines 2.2

http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jul/0035.html


Discussion:
****is there an issue with Mac browsers and utf-8?
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jul/0002.html

****should we limit ourselves to xhtml served as text/html for the
guidelines?


Questions
-should we be concerned with distinguishing behaviour for 
DOCTYPE related 'standards mode', 'almost standards mode' and
'quirks mode'

-what should we do wrt distinguishing behaviour for 
XHTML served as text/html or app/xml or app/xhtml+xml?

-should we assume the use of xml declaration for xhtml 1, or
factor in that many won't use it?
eg.
http://www.webstandards.org/learn/reference/prolog_problems.html



Guidelines Review
-


Education & Outreach
-Progress on article by Phil and co.


Content discussion



AOB





================================================
Details:



UPCOMING Q&A ASSIGNMENTS
------------------------------------------------------
Send to groupPublish
(latest)
Martin: DONE25 June
Richard:DONE2 July
Tex/Phil:DONE9 July
Richard:DONE16 July [css vs markup for bidi]
Lloyd:11 Jul23 July [see his 5 questions]
Tex21 Jul31 July [what is bidi & which langs]
Andrew28 Jul6 August
Martin4 aug13 aug
Richard11 aug20 aug [intnl vs mlingl sites]
Tbd18 aug
Tbd25 aug
Tbd1 sept
Russ8  sept17 sept

Note:
We are likely to receive something from John Yunker
We are likely to receive something from Yves Savourel





GUIDELINES CONTENT OWNERS
================

Steve
Anything in section 3 (character sets, encoding, entities)
[first priority]
    Anything in section 10 (Objects)

Martin
character sets & encodings in forms

Lloyd
Forms

Richard 
Bidi

Russ
automatic layout

Andrew
i was thinking of jotting down some notes on the following
areas, and 
then seeing what i could add to other sections.
3 Character sets, character encodings and entities
4 Specifying the language of content
5 Text direction
6.4 Ruby
7 Lists
8 Tables
     8.1 Mirroring tables in bidirectional text
15 Writing source text

John
Navigation




ACTIONS (ongoing and new)
=======

ACTION: Tex, to ping a couple of external list moderators to see if we
should announce there too.

ACTION: RI, ask Suzanne whether we can announce on her list.

ACTION: AC, write up some text about byte order marks that could be used
to develop section 2.2 
DONE

ACTION: Lloyd, write up some code samples relating to date formats and
link to them from the Q&A page at a later date

ACTION: RI, look into a sponsor for ftf in Atlanta

All: send in pointers to existing guidelines 


DEPENDENCIES
=============

HTML (SP): Approve para re application/xml+xhtml for bidi CSS vs markup
Q&A
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jul/0028.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jul/0029.html


HTML (SP & MI): help clarify how charset information should be declared
for html and xhtml 1.0 pages 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jul/0033.html



============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/ 
http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/



