docno="lists-076-7464982"
received="Mon Oct 23 18:02:09 2000"
isoreceived="20001023220209"
sent="Mon, 23 Oct 2000 17:01:33 -0500"
isosent="20001023220133"
name="Amy.Belanger@kohls.com"
email="Amy.Belanger@kohls.com"
subject="Statistical and other questions"
id="OF5538E503.5AB33ACF-ON86256981.0075F488@kohls.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org


A designer that I work with and I were discussing about the necessity of
making the site we are creating accessible to the visually impaired. We
were curious if there was any statistical information regarding percentages
of US web users that are visually impaired or blind.  (Our point is to make
a case for stronger implementation of W3C Guidelines as well as usability
and accessibility testing to those who hold the purse strings.  They thrive
on statistics.) We are in the design process now and are putting together
prototypes. Our thought was to create a design for that demographic, as
well as adjusting the prototypes we already have. (We currently do not have
a shopping site online, merely an informational site that we are working on
making Bobby Approved.)  Our thought was if the site is easy to use for the
visually impaired, it should be just as easy to use for those that are not.
Are we naive in our thinking? Or are we on the right track?

Our other question was regarding e-commerce sites. Are there any sites,
that the group is aware of, that do make a conscious effort to make their
site as accessible as possible to everyone who may be purchasing items on
the net--especially apparel?   I recall something regarding the Gap (?)
choosing not being accessible, even when the issue was brought to their
attention, but nothing on the reverse.  Any articles that relate to this
topic would be helpful.

Thanks for any help you can offer,

Amy Belanger

Kohl's Department Stores



