docno="lists-033-11869699"
received="Tue May 27 15:47:33 2003"
isoreceived="20030527194733"
sent="Tue, 27 May 2003 19:17:26 +0200"
isosent="20030527171726"
name="savitao@latinmail.com"
email="savitao@latinmail.com"
subject="confidential matters"
id="20030527171721.8CA9D14123@w3c2.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org






Good day,sir/madam

I have to first of all apologise for taking unawares
by
the contents of this message.  I had to send the
message
straightaway because of the short time involved in
what
I demand of you.  Please treat this message with
utmost
seriousness and swiftness.


Apart from the fact that you will be adequately
rewarded,
I will forever show my gratitude.
I am Mr. Aroujo Tao Savimbi, son of the late Angolan
Leader
Jonas Savimbi who was killed  year ago.  I got your
contact
details from the internet because I really have no
time and
I needed an anonymous person abroad whom I hope I can
trust.
I pray I am not making wrong judgement by coming to
you.


Jonas Savimbi deposited a large sum of money with a
security
vault in Europe  that is my late father.
The movement
of members of his family (including me) is restricted.

Our movement are monitored but I have managed to enter

spain where I intend to lie very low until I complete
this
transaction with you.  Other members of my family and
I do not
have access to any of these deposits with banks in
Angola and ,America
 so you can see how desperately we need your
assistance.
Both government officials and fraudulent relatives are
trying
to get their hands on my father's wealth by claiming
that the
wealth was gotten through arms smuggling and illegal
sale of
diamonds.


You can find out more about my late father by checking
this
profile at URL below:

http://www.rte.ie/news/2002/0223/angola.html
http://www.rnw.nl/humanrights/html/vitoria1020814.html

http://www.zzam.org/Full/Africa/Angola/History/Angola_History_Leaders.


His wealth is estimated to be over US$1billion and my
mother,
being the only one with some of the documents has
aided me to
sneak into european countries as a refugee and conclude this
transaction with any one I choose.


I have spoken with the security company and the
operations
manager has agreed to release the two trunk boxes in
their
possession to whomever's name I issue a power of
attorney
as the new beneficiary of the deposit. This security
company
has US$50,000,000.00 each and precious materials which
my
father lodged in their safe keep in Europe 
before
his death so I will give you their contact and
relevant documents
including power of attorney to allow you access to the
two trunk boxes of money.


The whole idea is for you to receive this money
physically,
set up bank accounts in  U.S.A and Europe and transfer
in bits
into your home bank accounts before my government even
knows
what is happening.  My father was a rebel leader in
Angola
before his death.  You must follow my instructions as
stated
above the transfer of the funds because it will be
difficult
for the Angolan government to trace my father's money
to an
individuals account moreso, when you have no prior
relationship
with us.


I am currently and temporarily living in Spanish 
refugee 
camp and I will be communicating with you on a
satellite phone
and GSM to avoid intervention by the authorities.
We have to keep this transaction very secret because
of the
political situation in Angola at the moment.  I shall
send
you a password and information that will include power
of
attorney and the contact of the security company as
soon as
you are ready to proceed.


Could you please send your full names, address,
confidential
telephone and fax number to enable me issue a power of
attorney
to you and refer you to the security company in
spain
for immediate payment.



Yours sincerely,
Aroujo Tao Saimbi



