docno="lists-072-11176110"
received="Thu Sep 25 04:08:42 1997"
isoreceived="19970925080842"
sent="Thu, 25 Sep 1997 18:08:21 +1000 (AEST)"
isosent="19970925080821"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
subject="Status of CSS 2"
id="Pine.SUN.3.95.970925175153.9480A-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To: WAI HC Working Group<w3c-wai-hc@w3.org>


What is the current status of the CSS 2 working draft? Is it substantially
complete, or are there still significant areas of CSS development that
will be incorporated into the document prior to its becoming a proposed
W3C recommendation?

An admittedly hurried perusal of the current draft indicates the
following:

1. ACSS has been included, thanks no doubt to the commendable efforts of
T.V. Raman and Chris Lilley.

2. The selection of elements based on generic attribute values is still
not possible; only CLASS and ID values are admitted as selectors.

3. Notes (including footnotes and end notes) are briefly mentioned in
section 20.3 (printing) as yet to be developed. Is it expected that such
work will be completed before CSS 2 becomes a standard? Without the actual
proposals, it is clearly not possible to assess the degree to which they
satisfy access requirements (in this instance, for example, the audio
treatment of notes; the braille requirements can be postponed for
consideration in the Braille CSS work).

4. I was unable to find any mention of section numbering or paragraph
numbering. Admittedly, my method of inquiry was somewhat primitive (using
a text searching programme in an attempt to find relevant key words), but
without success.

5. Media issues did not appear to be explicitly treated in the analysis of
cascading order. Is further clarification needed? Essentially, the
position should be that a style property which is qualified by a media
type (for example, via the @media construct in a style sheet) can not be
overridden by another style property unless the latter refers to the same
media type.



