docno="lists-052-12898070"
received="Thu Jul  3 11:23:11 2003"
isoreceived="20030703152311"
sent="Thu, 03 Jul 2003 09:15:07 -0400"
isosent="20030703131507"
name="Martin Duerst"
email="duerst@w3.org"
subject="Re: Summary of strings, markup, and language tagging in RDF          (resend)"
id="4.2.0.58.J.20030703091204.04eaf2c8@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="3F040C56.1000208&#64;hplb.hpl.hp.com"
expires="-1"


To: Jeremy Carroll<jjc@hplb.hpl.hp.com>, Patrick Stickler<patrick.stickler@nokia.com>
Cc:w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org, Brian_McBride<bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com>, ext pat hayes<phayes@ihmc.us>


At 11:58 03/07/03 +0100, Jeremy Carroll wrote:

>>Again, there are better ways to model language qualification than
>>xml:lang (even though at the expense of additional triples) and
>>the fact that lang tags for plain literals are invisible to generic
>>inference rules is IMO a far greater shortcoming of the final
>>solution than not having lang tags on XML literals. But that's another
>>(and probably needless, at this moment) discussion.
>
>
>This perhaps suggests that what we should be doing is noting we were not 
>chartered to improve the I18N support in RDF, but however feel that there 
>is at least room for exploration - requirements gathering etc. Hence we 
>could create a new issue "I18N and the semantic web" and postpone it for 
>consideration by the coordination group.

Thinking forward about what to do next is definitely a good idea.


>I believe we have already fulfilled our charter obligations to clarify the 
>I18N support already in M&S;

Just for the record, I think that both the current removal of xml:lang
from xml literals and the creation of a distinction between xml
literals with plain text only and plain literals are in conflict with
the M&S spec, and I think you have agreed with at least one of these
points.

Regards,    Martin.


>we have also updated much of the M&S work in light of advances in charmod; 
>we have made it much clearer how XMLLiteral is meant to work. We have 
>exceeded what we had to do, but I fear that there is still more that could 
>be done, and probably should be done in the next phase. We have postponed 
>one I18N issue to do with language ranges, I wonder if we should not at 
>least suggest to the CG that, after RDF and OWL are at Rec, it would be 
>worth having a task force with adequate I18N IG support to at least scope 
>what else could be done.
>
>Jeremy
>



