docno="lists-004-8943523"
received="Sat Dec 20 08:25:16 2003"
isoreceived="20031220132516"
sent="Sat, 20 Dec 2003 14:25:11 +0100"
isosent="20031220132511"
name="lottointerprom@netscape.net"
email="lottointerprom@netscape.net"
subject="AWARD WINNING FINAL NOTIFICATION."
id="20031220132514.4ECE6A055A@frink.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



236 CALL REIMBRANATSLIEN,

28275MADRID SPAIN.

FROM: THE DESK OF THE VICE PRESIDENT.

INTERNATIONAL  PROMOTION/PRIZE AWARD.

BACTH NO:LDNL/225542/03  REF NO:LDNL/398794/13

                          RE: AWARD WINNING FINAL NOTIFICATION.

This is to inform you of the release of the GLOBAL LOTTERY
INTERNATIONAL/WORLD GAMING BOARD. Held on the 30th September 2003.Due to the
mix of numbers, the results were released on the 1st Nov 2003.Your name was
attached to the ticket number 00788769 with serial number 0980978-0 drew the
lucky numbers of 1-3-19.Which consequently won the lottery in the 2nd
category. You have therefore been approved for the lump sum payment of
3.500.000.00 (Three Million Five Hundred Thousand Euros) in cash credited to
file with REF NO:LDNL/398794/13.

CONGRATULATION: Due to mix up of some numbers and names, we ask that you
keep your winning information confidential until your claims has been
processed and your money remitted to you.  This is part of our security
protocol to avoid double claim and unwarranted abuse of this program by some
participants.

All participants were selected through a computer ballot system drawn from
only Microsoft users from 20,000 companies, and 3,000,000 individual email
addresses and names from all over the world. This promotional program takes
place every three years.

To begin your lottery claim, please contact the processing company that have
been appointed for the processing of your lottery winning. The person
appointed to handle your processing and remittance of your prize money to an
account of your choice is Dr Tomson Powell. Director Operation Euro Credit
Commission Madrid Spain. Calle Malaga 47,28100
Spain.Telphone:+34-686-401-693. Email:drtomsonpowell@netscape.com

Any claim not made three weeks from this date, will be returned as unclaimed
to the MINISTERIAL VAN DE ECONOMIA SPAIN.

Note that all unclaimed winnings will be included in the next stake. Also in
order to avoid unnecessary delay and complications, remember to quote your
reference and batch numbers on all your correspondence with Dr Tomson Powell
Coleman. And please follow all his instruction religiously. Furthermore,
should there be any change of address do inform our agent as soon as
possible.

Congratulations once more from all our staff and thank you for being part of
our promotional program.

Yours Sincerely,

Janet Maria Rodriguez.



