docno="lists-033-8678281"
received="Wed Sep 25 11:19:54 2002"
isoreceived="20020925151954"
sent="Wed Sep 25 11:19:54 2002"
isosent="20020925151954"
name="EDWARD BONGO"
email="bongoabidjan@spinfinder.net"
subject="YOUR URGENT ASSISTANCE IS NEEDED"
id="200209251519.LAA18534@tux.w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org


Dear,

I know this mail will come to you as a surprise, I got
your address through a private search.

I am Edward Bongo, the personal assistant/in-law to
the late General Robert Guei of Cote D?Ivoire who was
killed in an arranged military mutiny last week
Thursday September 19th 2002. Gen. Guei who became
President of Cote D?Ivoire on the 24th of December
1999 is by far the most descent military ruler that
ruled in Africa having ruled for only one year and
conducted a fair election that brought the present
President Gbagbo into power. Since Then, his
popularity increased while hatred existed in the high
places which led to his announcing the formation of a
new party and leaving his post as the defence minister
in the present regime hence the planned killing all in
the name of mutiny.

Sustained machine gun fire started in the commercial
capital Abidjan before dawn on Thursday 14th September
and continued for several hours throughout the city,
frequently accompanied by heavy artillery with over
1,500 soldiers marching to my in-laws house. Why they
exchanged gunfire with his guards, he called me and
said <there?s a lot of shooting outside my house and I
think I am in danger> behold, he was killed with my
sister [his wife] and several of his guards.

I therefore wish to solicit for your confidential
assistance to receive the total of US$56M(Fifty-six
Million United States Dollars only) urgently without
revealing my identity. There is an urgent need to do
so in order to relocate my family and the now orphans
of the late general and his aged mother. These are
actually funds he put in place to finance the new
political party for election which infact is the main
reason of his killing. Do not mind the news going on
world wide that he was killed in an attempt to
overthrow the government again, it is all make believe by the government.
There is US$40M deposited in two financial homes in
Europe and US$16M deposited in cash in a security
company here in Africa as personal belongings without
the notice of the company.

We have resolved to give you 20% of the total sum only
upon confirmation of the money in any account of your
choice either personal or company were the incident of
taxation will not take much tool on it. 

Should you decide to help us, contact me immediately
via email with your personal phone and fax numbers for
easy and confidential communication and for more
details. We have concluded a wonderful plan to
conclude the transfers in two weeks. Please note that
this transaction is 100% confidential and will never
endanger you or us in any way.I have arranged for a
satelight phone to be delievered within the next
couple of days.

Waiting for your swift response and God bless.

Please do not use the reply button, reply only to

bongofamily@netscape.net

please take note.

Yours sincerely,

Edward Bongo 



