docno="lists-023-0350466"
received="Thu May 22 09:27:33 2003"
isoreceived="20030522132733"
sent="Thu, 22 May 2003 09:27:31 -0400"
isosent="20030522132731"
name="Glenn A. Adams"
email="glenn@xfsi.com"
subject="Minutes - 05/01/03 Telecon"
id="7249D02C4D2DFD4D80F2E040E8CAF37C03BA43@longxuyen.xfsi.com"
charset="utf-8"
expires="-1"


To:"W3C TT Public"<public-tt@w3.org>



Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 05/01/03

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF1]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]
  Mike Dolan (Invited Expert) [MD]

Regrets

  Markku Hakkinen (JSRPD) [MH]
  Markus Gylling (Daisy) [MG]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]
  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]

Absent

  Sean Hayes (Microsoft) [SH]
  Gerry Field (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF2]
  George Kerscher (Daisy) [GK]
  Brad Botkin (WGBH/NCAM) [BB]
  Patrick Schmitz (Ludicrum, Invited Expert) [PS]

************************************************************************
Agenda
************************************************************************

1. TT-AF-1-0-REQ Review and Publishing Process
2. Open Action Items
3. Open Issues

************************************************************************
0. Preliminaries
************************************************************************

* Reminder for F2F Registration and Date Change

[GA] Please register at [1] if you plan to attend and have not already
done so.

[1] http://www.w3.org/AudioVideo/TT/Group/2003/f2f-BBC/Overview.html

* CC Minutes Publishing on Public Reflector

[GA] Asks if any problems to publish on public reflector. No objections.

Acton: [GA] Post prior draft minutes to public reflector and update
minutes page with correct links.

************************************************************************
1. TT-AF-1-0-REQ Review and Publishing Process
************************************************************************

* Intro    - Review

* SXXX     - Review

* S002     - Change name to "Audio Description"? Stay with "Video
             Description" for now, add editorial note indicating
             possible alternative of "Text Description of Video".

[DS] Asks about intention of Generic Timed Text.

[GA] Means primary or only media.

* R210     - Added viewport and region items

[GA] Describes addition of new items.

[DS] 3GPP calls viewport a "text region" and a region a "text box".

* R214     - Added note explaining glyph mapping and glyph references

* R217     - Add editorial note asking if we need to support block
level graphics for prerasterized text to be expressed conditional
content. Add note suggesting SVG as a possible embedded graphic format.
Add editorial note asking if data: should be considered embedded or
non-embedded.

* R218     - Non-Embedded Graphics

* R220     - Non-Embedded Fonts

* R221     - Change name to Descriptive Vocabulary; add informative
     reference to TEI P4

* R292     - Xlink usage - adopt Xlink

* R293     - Xlink usage - adopt Xlink; need to add req for using Xlink
for external graphics and fonts. Combine R292 and R293 into "External
Resource References".

* R306     - Add {block,inline} scroll amount; change top,left to origin;
     remove bottom and right

* R5XX   - Review

* R6XX   - Review

* R606   - IPRM items? What to do? Leave as open issue.

* R608     - Remove note on episode. Also remove note on source and revision
     under R606 and R607.

* R690     - Remove superfluous text which got copied from R608 by error.

[MD] Thinks some things marked as editorial notes are really open issues.

Action: [GA] Change editorial notes to issues where appropriate.

* NRefs    - DMCES 1.1 added; XML InfoSet added

* IRefs    - Many additions: 3GPP, DMCI, EIA 608B/708B, EN 300 706/743,
             SAMI, TEI

* Reminder - need to add req for XHTML entity sets

* Publish  - as WD in TR space; no objections.

************************************************************************
2. Action Items Review
************************************************************************

Action: [GA] to contact someone from TEI and Speech Markup Group to
review requirements for speech markup and aural properties.

Continue.

Action: [GA] Add note under R110 indicating targeting MPEG-4 Timed
Text Streaming Format.

Done.

************************************************************************
2. Open Issue Review
************************************************************************

I-7: Need to discuss embedded fonts (R215).

Resolution: Support expression of embedded fonts, e.g., as SVG.

I-8: Do we want to support external font resources?

Resolution: Do support external font resources, e.g., truetype,
PFR, etc.

I-9: Need refinement of semantic vocabulary for R216.

Await public review.

I-10: Need to agree on use of XLink for referencing (R292, R293).

Resolution: Do support Xlink; combine R292 and R293 into single
REQ.

I-11: Need to discuss additional style parameters (R305): baseline
related, border, margin, padding, etc.

Await public review.

I-12: Need to define interaction of time containers with content
containment structure.

I-13: [DS] Under R211, do we want to support an intermediate mode where
bidi and glyph sub still occur post authoring?

I-14: Whether to support embedded or external references to audio clips
to handle aural presentation?

I-15: Whether to indicate use of "data:" URI scheme for embedding
graphics?

Resolution: We should not specify any specific URI schemes in AF.

************************************************************************
ADJOURNS at 1305h Eastern Time (US)
************************************************************************

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

Resolution: Support expression of embedded fonts, e.g., as SVG.

Resolution: Do support external font resources, e.g., truetype,
PFR, etc.

Resolution: Do support Xlink; combine R292 and R293 into single
REQ.

Resolution: We should not specify any specific URI schemes in AF.

Resolution: Publish TT-AF-1-0-REQ as first public WD.

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [GA] to contact someone from TEI and Speech Markup Group to
review requirements for speech markup and aural properties.

Action: [GA] Change editorial notes to issues where appropriate in
TT-AF-1-0-REQ.

Action: [GA] Post prior teleconf minutes to public reflector and
update minutes page.

Action: [GA] Work with [TM] to publish 1st draft of TT-AF-1-0-REQ
as WD under W3C TR hierarchy.

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

I-12: Need to define interaction of time containers with content
containment structure.

I-13: [DS] Under R211, do we want to support an intermediate mode where
bidi and glyph sub still occur post authoring?

I-14: Whether to support embedded or external references to audio clips
to handle aural presentation?

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



