docno="lists-016-15759942"
received="Sun Feb 22 18:56:55 2004"
isoreceived="20040222235655"
sent="Sun, 22 Feb 2004 15:56:38 0800"
isosent="20040222235638"
name="Ted Hardie"
email="hardie@qualcomm.com"
subject="MINUTES: IETF/W3C coordination call"
id="p06020404bc5ef1eef759@[205.214.163.50]"
charset="usascii"
inreplyto="4.2.0.58.J.20040220120720.06313f10&#64;localhost"
expires="1"


To:public-ietf-w3c@w3.org,w3c-policy@apps.ietf.org


Meeting minutes for W3/IETF coordination meeting
Reported by:  Ted Hardie


Attending:  Tim Berners-Lee (W3C),  Dan Connolly (W3C), Leslie Daigle (IAB),
                     Martin Duerst (W3C), Ted Hardie(IESG)
Meeting Chair: Martin Duerst

The meeting covered the following agenda:

* Review of Action Items from previous meetings
* Coordination of meeting dates
* Discussion of media type registration processes
* Update on the progress of a revision to RFC 3023 (XML subtypes)
* Review of open issues related to individual MIME types
* Pointers to new work in each organization.
* Discussion of jabber as a potential tool for future meetings.
* Setting the date and time of the next meeting: June 17th, 2004 5pm 
-6:30 U.S. EDT

In the Action Item review, Ted reported that he had put the
chairs of the WebDav working group in touch with XML Query
Working group.  Dan then reported that initial attempts to
set up a URI coordination group had met scheduling
difficulties.  The group confirmed that the item is still
of interest, and it will be carried forward.

Martin then summarized the existing situation with IETF/W3C
meeting conflicts.  The Seoul IETF and W3C Technical Plenary
conflict, and the situation may arise again in the meetings planned
for Fall of 2004.  Leslie Daigle re-affirmed that the IETF is interested
in avoiding these conflicts, and that it will, in general, change
venues rather than dates once the dates have been announced.
Martin Duerst will confirm with the W3C Administration team
knows of the address at which to send meeting notices
to the IETF. 

Ted Hardie noted that the passage of the updated MIME documents
means a new process will be in place for type/sub-type registrations.
Martin Duerst has defined a process by which the W3C will interact
with the IETF for these registrations, both to streamline that process
and to help W3C participants  understand the steps involved.  The
IESG has reviewed a document describing the interface portions
of that document and has agreed to make it the basis of the coordination.
Ted Hardie has committed to the IESG to produce the procedure
document for the IETF's use, based on Martin's document and the
W3C's comments.

Martin then described the updates to RFC 3023.
Martin and Chris Lilly have discussed the charset
parameter extensively; there are likely to be text changes to the
document to deprecate text/xml and text/$foo+xml.  The charset parameter
text is likely to be changed more generally, after a review of existing
implementations.  The main new item will be a definition of the default
fragment identifier syntax will be for the generation application/$foo+xml.
This is for integration of work related to xpointer.  Dan asked Martin
to check with the XSLT working group on the deprecation of text/xml.
Martin agreed, and suggested that they might eventually register
appliction/xslt+xml, but that would be a separate process.

The SMIL work remains an open issue for MIME type. Martin has sent email to
Philip Hoschka, who has the token for SMIL work at the moment.

The group then discussed new work and ways of coordinating work.
The current IETF/W3C effort is peer-to-peer, and it was agreed
that this was a better model than using a meta-standards repository,
as has been proposed by other organization.  Tim noted, however, that
work to create standard metadata or interchange formats might be
useful.  The group discussed at what point coordination was useful.
The existing "new-work" mailing list is broadcast, and it is intended
to cover work that is being considered as well as work that has been
approved.  That limits some organizations participation, but it allows
for the participants to share work, in situations where both agree that
work needs to be done, but the allocation of it between organizations
is not clear.  A "pub-sub" model was discussed as a way of providing
different amount of information, based on interest and affiliation.
All agreed that notification when work was undertaken was preferable
to notification of completed work and probably easier to achieve
than notification of work under discussion.


Martin asked whether there is a need for coordination between TAG
and IAB, given their architectural responsibilities.  Dan noted that
the architecture documents went out for a very long last call,
and that a review by the IAB might be useful. Appropriate
action items were assigned.

Ted noted the upcoming work on anti-Spam mechanisms,
SMTPng and email internationalization.  Tim indicated that there
is interest within the W3C on the problems, and they have considered
mechanisms for their own use.   The group then discussed the
general question of how the email infrastructure could scale
in the face of spam.

Dan has noted the "Marid" BoF to the W3C systems folk, since they are
already using SPF records.

The group then discussed early stage work on binary xml, based on a
recent workshop.  There are people who care a lot about this.  Leslie asked if
this work includes compression, and Dan indicateed that it might. 
Martin noted that
another issue was actually processing time rather than compression.

Dan mentioned the Data Access Working group, and agreed to provide
further information on that.

Leslie noted that there are lots of folks who might be interested
in consuming such if it were developed, but it is not really in
the IETF's core competence to create a compressed XML format.

The group then briefly discussed the use of jabber conferencing,
and it agreed to use it on the next coordination call.

Next meeting:  June 17th, 2004 5pm -6:30 U.S. EDT.
The next meeting will use Jabber conferencing.


Action Items:

Dan Connolly to set up a meeting to coordinate further work on URIs.
Dan Connolly to send a pointer to the W3C architecture documents to the list.
Dan Connolly  to provide further information on the Data Access Working Group.
Leslie Daigle to find an IAB reviewer for the architecture documents 
provided by Dan.
Martin Duerst to update the XSLT working group on progress related to RFC 3023.



