docno="lists-022-13655935"
received="Thu Aug  7 13:51:15 2003"
isoreceived="20030807175115"
sent="Thu, 7 Aug 2003 13:51:14 -0400"
isosent="20030807175114"
name="Glenn A. Adams"
email="glenn@xfsi.com"
subject="Minutes - 05/22/03 Telecon"
id="7249D02C4D2DFD4D80F2E040E8CAF37C03BCC4@longxuyen.xfsi.com"
charset="utf-8"
expires="-1"


To:"W3C TT Public"<public-tt@w3.org>



Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 05/22/03

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Markku Hakkinen (JSRPD) [MH]
  Markus Gylling (Daisy) [MG]
  Sean Hayes (Microsoft) [SH]
  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF1]
  Mike Dolan (Invited Expert) [MD]

Regrets

  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]
  David Kirby (BBC) [DK]

Absent

  Gerry Field (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF2]
  George Kerscher (Daisy) [GK]
  Brad Botkin (WGBH/NCAM) [BB]
  Patrick Schmitz (Ludicrum, Invited Expert) [PS]

************************************************************************
Agenda
************************************************************************

1. Status of TT-AF-1-0-REQ
2. Action Item Review
3. Open Issues
4. Pre-Rasterized Text Support
5. F2F Planning

************************************************************************
0. Preliminaries
************************************************************************

* New Member - BBC (David Kirby to represent)

************************************************************************
1. Status of TT-AF-1-0-REQ
************************************************************************

Now published.

************************************************************************
2. Action Items Review
************************************************************************

Action: [GA] to contact someone from TEI and Speech Markup Group to
review requirements for speech markup and aural properties.

Not done.

Action: [GA] Change editorial notes to issues where appropriate in
TT-AF-1-0-REQ.

Done.

Action: [GA] Post prior teleconf minutes to public reflector and
update minutes page.

Done.

Action: [GA] Work with [TM] to publish 1st draft of TT-AF-1-0-REQ
as WD under W3C TR hierarchy.

Done.

Action: [TM] to check on BBC participation request.

Done.

************************************************************************
3. Open Issue Review
************************************************************************

I-12: Need to define interaction of time containers with content
containment structure.

Sean notes that we might allow references to external text content at
a higher layout level of granularity.

Possible New Requirement: Should be possible to independently express
layout and timing containment and ordering?

[GA] Proposes to defer decision until F2F. Agreed.

I-13: [DS] Under R211, do we want to support an intermediate mode where
bidi and glyph sub still occur post authoring?

Action: [GA] Ask [DS] to submit proposal or agree to close issue.
Should resolve by F2F meeting.

I-14: Whether to support embedded or external references to audio clips
to handle aural presentation?

Action: [SH] to draft potential requirements or agree to close issue.
Should resolve by F2F meeting.

[GA] Asks about other open issues.

[EH] Had asked Eric Hodge to review animation requirements; Eric was
fine with animation reqs and current draft as a whole.

************************************************************************
4. Pre-Rasterized Text Support
************************************************************************

[SH] Some authors want exact control.

Resolution: support pre-rendered graphics and audio, either by embedding
or reference, but require accompanying textual (character based) content
for accessibility purposes.

************************************************************************
5. F2F Meeting Planning
************************************************************************

* Reminder for F2F Registration and Date Change

Tentative Attendees:

  Glenn Adams, Thierry Michel, David Kirby, Marcus Gylling, Sean Hayes,
  Dave Singer

Action: [GA] work with [TM] to investigate telecon F2F support from F2F
in UK.
  
Action: [EH], [SH], [DS] to investigate hosting a F2F on US West Coast
in Sep-Oct time frame.

[GA] Suggests we not hold telecon on 05/29. Agreed.

Action: [GA] Send announcement that no telecon will be held on 05/29.

************************************************************************
ADJOURNS at 1240h Eastern Time (US)
************************************************************************

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

Resolution: support pre-rendered graphics and audio, either by embedding
or reference, but require accompanying textual (character based) content
for accessibility purposes.

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [GA] to contact someone from TEI and Speech Markup Group to
review requirements for speech markup and aural properties.

Action: [GA] Ask [DS] to submit proposal or agree to close issue.
Should resolve by F2F meeting.

Action: [SH] to draft potential requirements or agree to close issue.
Should resolve by F2F meeting.

Action: [GA] work with [TM] to investigate telecon F2F support from F2F
in UK.
  
Action: [EH], [SH], [DS] to investigate hosting a F2F on US West Coast
in Sep-Oct time frame.

Action: [GA] Send announcement that no telecon will be held on 05/29.

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

I-12: Need to define interaction of time containers with content
containment structure.

I-13: [DS] Under R211, do we want to support an intermediate mode where
bidi and glyph sub still occur post authoring?

I-14: Whether to support embedded or external references to audio clips
to handle aural presentation?

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



