docno="lists-070-14961203"
received="Thu May 29 17:39:44 2003"
isoreceived="20030529213944"
sent="Thu, 29 May 2003 17:38:44 -0400"
isosent="20030529213844"
name="David MacDonald"
email="befree@magma.ca"
subject="passive vs active voice in May 9 Proposed reorganization"
id="5.2.0.9.2.20030529173836.00bcfa00@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-gl@w3.org





Hi all

One thing that I want to draw attention to is the grammatical voicing of 
the guidelines.  Most of them are at present in the passivevoice 
(grammatically speaking)

Some of them are in the activevoice.  Most technical documents are written 
in the activevoice.  Is it OK (a) that most of them are in the passive voice?

(b) that some are in active voice and others are in passive voice. Would we 
rather write them all to be in the same grammatical voicing? The table 
below indicates the grammatical voicing.



David MacDonald

=========================

  Access Empowers People...

        ...Barriers Disable Them

          <http://www.eramp.com/>www.eramp.com





Passive/active Voice

Guideline

Passive

Core

1-C1  [1.1] All non-text content that can be expressed in words has a text 
equivalent of the function or information that the non-text content was 
intended to convey.



Passive

1-C2   [1.2]  Synchronized media equivalents are provided for 
time-dependent presentations.



Active

1-C3   [1.3]  All content and structure are [separate or separable from] 
available independently of presentation.

Passive

1-C4   [1.6]   All characters and words in the content can be unambiguously 
decoded.

Passive

Extended

1-C4   [1.6]   All characters and words in the content can be unambiguously 
decoded.

Passive

1-E2    [1.5]   Foreground content is easily differentiable from background 
for both auditory and visual presentations [required].

Core

Active

2-C1   [2.1]   Ensure that all of the functionality is operable at a 
minimum through a keyboard or a keyboard interface.

Active

2-C2   [2.2] Allow users to control any time limits on their reading, 
interaction, or responses unless control is not possible due to nature of 
real time events or competition.

Active

Extended

2-E1   [2.3]    User can prevent screen flicker.

Passive

2-E2   [3.1 and 3.2]  Structure and/or alternate navigation mechanisms have 
been added to facilitate orientation and movement in content.

Passive

2-E3  [3.5]   Methods are provided to minimize error and provide graceful 
recovery.

Passive

Core

3-C1  [1.6 partial]   Language of content can be unambiguously determined.

Passive

3-C2   [4.3]  The meaning of words, abbreviations, and acronyms can be 
unambiguously determined.

Passive

Extended

3-E1   [4.1 and 4.2]  Content is written to be no more complex than is 
necessary and/or supplement with simpler forms of the content.

Passive

3-E2   [3.3 and 3.4]  Layout and behavior of content is consistent but not 
identical.

Passive

Core

4-C1   [5.1]  Technologies are used according to specification

Active

4-C2   [5.2]   Ensure that technologies relied upon by the content are 
declared and widely available.

Passive

4-C3   [5.3 and 5.4]   Technologies used for presentation and user 
interface support accessibility or alternate versions of the content are 
provided which do support accessibility.

Passive

4-C1   [5.1]  Technologies are used according to specification

Active

4-C2   [5.2]   Ensure that technologies relied upon by the content are 
declared and widely available.

Passive

4-C3   [5.3 and 5.4]   Technologies used for presentation and user 
interface support accessibility or alternate versions of the content are 
provided which do support accessibility.





=========================



Access Empowers People...

        ...Barriers Disable Them



         <http://www.eramp.com/>www.eramp.com



