docno="lists-080-4889241"
received="Thu Nov 20 04:15:50 2003"
isoreceived="20031120091550"
sent="Thu, 20 Nov 2003 01:15:49 -0800 (PST)"
isosent="20031120091549"
name="Lynn Stephens"
email="lynnstephens@yahoo.com"
subject="Re: JavaScript Visual Effects"
id="20031120091549.3691.qmail@web12821.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="JavaScript Visual Effects"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org


(a brief changing text description of the photos would
help everyone enjoy the site, what are the names of
the children?)

Sorry Jonathan this isnt having a go at you personally
as I know unless you have been involved with these
issues, or know someone who has, its not something
people consider. I feel very, very strongly about
child safety on the internet as I am sure everyone
does. I am as passionate about this subject as I am
about accessibility.

Never, ever, ever put a childs name or any other
identifying details that could enable someone to talk
to the child and give them the impression they know
them or their parents this could lull the child into a
false sense of security and enable unsavoury people to
build up a relationship with the child then we get to
read about it in the news.

I worked with our local police and the NSPCC to put
some guidlines together, in the early days of public
access to the internet, for designers to use when
creating sites. There was plenty going on about
advising parents and children themselves re safety on
the web but I thought we should also approach it from
our end as well. One of the topics covered was around
identifiying children. The amount of infant and junior
schools with pictures of children with details about
them on their websites was ridiculous. Dont know if
this approach stopped any crimes against children but
I do know we didnt contribute information to help
certain people from targeting children.

__________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Protect your identity with Yahoo! Mail AddressGuard
http://antispam.yahoo.com/whatsnewfree



