docno="lists-043-8721108"
received="Sat Feb 15 18:16:59 2003"
isoreceived="20030215231659"
sent="Sat, 15 Feb 2003 17:56:52 -0600 (CST)"
isosent="20030215235652"
name="info@lelpeto.com"
email="info@lelpeto.com"
subject="&quot;Lel Bruce Peto&quot; Oil sector 90's chronology informing..1996"
id="29183.63.164.145.161.1045353412.squirrel@www.lelpeto.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-formal-assertion-testbed@w3.org


"Lel Bruce Peto" Oil sector 90's chronology restating..
Oil & Gas Chronology :  The 1990?s



1996


January 17 
Iraq agrees to talks concerning a U.N. plan to allow for the Iraqi sale of 
$1 billion of oil for 90 days for a 180-day trial period. Under U.N. 
Resolution 986, proceeds from the sale would be used for humanitarian 
purposes. In the past, Iraq has opposed clauses 6 and 8b contained in 
Resolution 986. Clause 6 stipulates that oil exports under this plan must 
pass through the 1.6-million b/d Iraq-Turkey pipeline, which currently is 
unusable because of sludge build-ups and pumping station damage. By most 
estimates, the line would take a minimum of three months to repair. Clause 
8b states that part of the proceeds from the sales would be disbursed 
under U.N. supervision to Kurdish provinces in northern Iraq. Negotiations 
between Iraq and the United Nations are scheduled to begin February 6, 
1996. (FT, PON, DJ) 

January 30 

Vice Admiral Scott Redd, commander of the U.S. Fifth Fleet based in the 
Persian Gulf, states that Iran test-fired a new anti-ship missile near the 
Strait of Hormuz on January 6. The missile reportedly has a range of 60 
miles and is viewed as a threat to regional security by U.S. naval forces 
operating in the area. Oil tankers carry about 15 million b/d through the 
Strait. (DJ)

April 24 

In New York, the United Nations and Iraq end a third round of negotiations 
over Iraq's possible sale of $1 billion of oil for 90 days for a 180-day 
trial period. Under U.N. Resolution 986, proceeds from the sale would be 
used for humanitarian purposes. While both sides have reached agreement on 
most of the key issues, chief Iraqi negotiator Abdul Amir al-Anbari says 
that the United States and the United Kingdom have fundamentally altered 
the text of a proposed agreement which he had received from the United 
Nations early in the third round. Al-Anbari states that the changes have 
postponed any possible deal. The U.N.-Iraq talks are scheduled to restart 
on May 10. (DJ)

April 30 

In the United States, President Clinton approves the sale of $227 million 
of crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. At current oil prices, 
roughly 12 million barrels would be sold. The Clinton Administration hopes 
that the sale will lower gasoline prices in the United States, which are 
at their highest levels in five years. (WSJ)

May 20 

In New York, the United Nations and Iraq agree to U.N. Resolution 986, 
which provides Iraq with the opportunity to sell $1 billion of oil for 90 
days for a 180-day trial period. Under the resolution, proceeds from the 
sale would be used for humanitarian purposes. The agreement comes 
following months of heated negotiations. Iraqi oil exports are expected to 
begin by the Fall of 1996, after a pumping station on the Iraq-Turkey 
pipeline is repaired and U.N monitoring and aid distribution facilities 
are put in place. Shortly after the agreement, the White House announces 
its decision to allow U.S. oil companies to purchase Iraqi oil exports. 
(FT, PON, WSJ)

June 11 

Exxon states that it will soon begin work on its $15-billion Sakhalin I 
oil and natural gas development in Russia's Far East. The Sakhalin I 
project will develop an estimated 5 billion barrels of oil and 15 trillion 
cubic feet (Tcf) of gas located in three offshore hydrocarbon fields. The 
$300 million appraisal program will include drilling one exploration well 
and conducting a 3-D seismic survey. The U.S. company says that it will 
start working despite ongoing differences with the Russian government over 
the country's new production sharing law, which is widely viewed as not 
offering adequate legal protection for foreign investment in the country's 
oil and gas sectors. (FT)

June 20 

The Venezuelan Congress approves eight, multi-billion dollar, profit-
sharing deals which allow foreign oil companies to explore and produce oil 
in Venezuela for the first time since the country's 1975 nationalization 
of the oil industry. The deals could boost Venezuela's current oil 
production by 500,000 b/d by 2005. Foreign oil companies such as Amoco and 
British Petroleum are expected to sign final deals with state-owned PdVSA 
within 10 days and may begin working on their new acreage by the third 
quarter of 1996. The eight blocks are estimated to hold between 7 to 11 
billion barrels of light crude oil reserves. (PON, DJ) 

July 7 

OPEC issues a resolution announcing Gabon's withdrawal from the 
organization, effective January 1, 1995. Gabon had an OPEC quota of 
287,000 b/d. (FT)

July 18 

The United Nations formally approves an Iraqi aid distribution plan, a 
major step forward in the direction of allowing Iraq to sell oil under 
Resolution 986. (DJ) 

August 6 

President Clinton signs a new bill imposing sanctions on non-U.S. 
companies which invest over $40 million a year in the energy sectors of 
either Iran and Libya. Under the law, the President would be required to 
impose at least two of the following sanctions: import and export bans; 
lending embargoes from U.S. banks; a ban on U.S. procurement of goods and 
services from sanctioned companies; and a denial of U.S export financing. 
The European Union has stated its opposition to the U.S. law and 
threatened retaliation. (FT) 

August 21 

In Venezuela, a subsidiary of state-owned Petroleos de Venezuela (PdVSA), 
Corpoven, signs a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with U.S.-based ARCO. 
The MOU provides for a $3.5-billion joint venture to develop and upgrade 
roughly 200,000 b/d of crude oil from the country's 270-billion Orinoco 
Heavy Oil Belt. The project will produce 9? API gravity crude oil in the 
Hamaca region and upgrade it to 25? API for export to U.S. refineries. The 
project will be implemented in three phases, the last of which will be 
completed in 2006. Another PdVSA subsidiary, Maraven, recently signed 
another, similar deal with Conoco. (PON, FT)

September 5 

Following U.S. cruise missile strikes on military facilities in southern 
Iraq, crude oil prices rise as the market speculates when Iraq will begin 
exporting oil under U.N. Resolution 986. Benchmark Brent Blend for October 
rises above $22/barrel amidst the uncertainty. The U.S. attack follows an 
Iraqi-supported invasion of Kurdish safe haven areas in the country's 
northern area. Subsequently, President Bill Clinton states that the U.N. 
oil-for-food sale should be postponed indefinitely. (DJ) 

October 30 

Exxon confirms that it is in talks with state-owned Qatar General 
Petroleum Corporation concerning the application of new technology to 
convert natural gas to petroleum products. Exxon believes that technology 
developed in a successful 200-b/d Anatural gas refinery project in Texas 
would work in Qatar, where a proposed $1-billion plant would be able 
produce between 50,000-100,000 b/d of middle distillate products. Under 
the proposal, Qatar's 270-Tcf North field would supply between 0.5-1 Bcf/d 
of gas for use as feedstock. In the past, technological barriers and high 
costs have precluded the development of natural gas refineries. (WSJ)

December 18 

During a press conference, Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Maleki 
states that Iran supports the free flow of oil through the Strait of 
Hormuz, but reserves the option of closing off the shipping route if it is 
threatened. Iran recently has admitted to deploying anti-aircraft and anti-
ship missiles on Abu Musa, an island strategically located near the Strait 
of Hormuz's shipping lanes. (DJ)

December 30 

The United Nations announces that a total of 21 contracts have been 
approved for the limited Iraqi oil sales under U.N. Resolution 986. The 
approved contracts will allow for 43.68 million barrels of oil to be 
exported in the first 90 days of the sale. At present, exports of 26.37 
million barrels have been approved for the second 90-day period of the 
sale, which allows Iraq to sell up to $1 billion worth of oil every 90 
days for an initial 6-month period. In mid-December 1996, Iraq restarted 
the Kirkuk-Ceyhan pipeline, which is expected to carry up to 450,000 b/d 
of oil under the sales agreements approved so far under U.N. Resolution 
986. Iraq's remaining oil exports will flow through the Mina al-Bakr 
terminal. (NYT, DJ)



