docno="lists-047-12526388"
received="Sun Jun 24 10:06:46 2001"
isoreceived="20010624140646"
sent="Sun, 24 Jun 2001 15:04:39 +0100"
isosent="20010624140439"
name="Brian McBride"
email="bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
subject="Re: RDFCore Minutes of telecon 2001-06-22"
id="3B35F377.1B9530D1@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="OF82A0F3A0.311DA076-ON88256A73.00591885&#64;mkm.can.ibm.com"
expires="-1"


To: Stephen Petschulat/CanWest/IBM<spetschu@ca.ibm.com>
CC:w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org

Thanks Steve for getting these out so promptly.

One action I think got missed - Graham agreed to update last weeks minutes.

Brian


Stephen Petschulat/CanWest/IBM wrote:
> 
> RDFCore WG 2001-06-22 Teleconference minutes
> 
> Transcript:
>            http://ilrt.org/discovery/chatlogs/rdfcore/2001-06-22
> 
> Agenda:
> 
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2001Jun/0392.html
> 
> Roll call:
> 
>   Participants:
>   - Art Barstow
>   - Dan Brickley (chair)
>   - Brian McBride (chair)
>   - Ron Daniel
>   - Jos De Roo
>   - Mike Dean
>   - Pat Hayes
>   - Graham Klyne
>   - Sergey Melnik
>   - Eric Miller
>   - Stephen Petschulat (scribe)
>   - Aaron Swartz
> 
>   Regrets: Dave Beckett, Dan Connolly, Frank Manola, Bill dehOra, Jan
> Grant, Martyn Horner
> 
>   Absent: Pierre Richard, R.V. Guha, Ora Lasilla, Frank Boumphrey, Michael
> Kopchenov, Yoshiyuki Kitahara, Satoshi Nakamura, Rael Dornfest
> 
> Review Agenda:
> 
>   Someone suggested a discussion on semantics as AOB if time permits
> 
> Review minutes of the last meeting:
> 
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2001Jun/0412.html
> 
>   with various corrections at
> 
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2001Jun/0391.html
> 
> Confirm following actions completed:
> 
>   AP: 2001-06-15#1: Brian: Update comment in:
> 
> http://www.w3.org/2000/10/rdf-tests/rdfcore/rdf-containers-syntax-vs-schema/test002.rdf
> 
>    DONE.
> 
>   AP: 2001-06-15#2: Jan: Review test cases in:
> 
> http://www.w3.org/2000/10/rdf-tests/rdfcore/rdf-containers-syntax-vs-schema/
> 
>    DONE.
> 
>   AP: 2001-06-15#3: Jan: Write up proposal for RDF embedded in an XML
> element
>   which has an xml:base attribute should be processed.
>   http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2001Jun/0340.html
>    DONE.
> 
>   AP: 2001-06-15#4: Brian: Write up a draft partitioning of the problem
> space
>   http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2001Jun/0400.html
>    DONE.
> 
> Review status of following actions:
> 
>   A4: Guha: re #rdfms-reification-required: Present analaysis to list
>   for discussion.
>    POSTPONED (absent).
> 
>   ACTION: JUN-01-01-#1: Martyn: create test cases rdfms-resource-semantics
>    POSTPONED (absent).
> 
>   ACTION: JUN-01-01-#9: Ora: send a note to the WG that describes
>   how aboutEach is being used and how it was implemented
>    POSTPONED (absent).
> 
> Discussion Items:
> 
> Partitioning the Problem Space
> 
>   Much discussion on this (see chat log).
> 
> Face to Face Meeting - Goals and Objectives & More Partitioning the Problem
> Space
> 
>   [These discussion morphed together. See chat log for the full story.]
> 
>   Brians F2F agenda proposal
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2001Jun/0394.html
> 
>   General agreement we need to define what we want to accomplish in
> advance, not when
>   we get there. Some concern that there is a lot to tackle. Concern was
> expressed about
>   the timing w.r.t the SWWS [1]. Do we miss a half day of the Symposium or
> a half day of the WG
>   meeting?
> 
>   ACTION: 2001-06-22#1: sergey: Talk to organizers about scheduling of
> talks.
> 
>   A number of people pointed out we need to tackle the core stuff
> (foundation, big picture,
>   meaty technical issues, etc.) Proposal that three key areas need to be
> addressed before the meeting:
> 
>   1. Which issues are in scope?
>   2. What are the partitions?
>   3. What are the dependencies between the issues?
> 
>   ACTION: 2001-06-22#2: Brian: Draft up these three points and post to
> list.
> 
>   Eric suggests we all prioritize the issues to focus the group better. Dan
> pointed out there
>   are already partitions laid out in
>   http://www.w3.org/2000/03/rdf-tracking/
> 
>   ACTION: 2001-06-22#3: All: Post priorities with reasons
>   ACTION: 2001-06-22#4: Sergey: Summarize priorities that are posted
> 
>   More discussion on partitioning (see chat log). Discussion on schema.
> 
>   ACTION: 2001-06-22#5: DanBri: Get a draft of RDFSchema to the group.
>   ACTION: 2001-06-22#6: DanBri: start activating issues on RDFS
> 
>   The URI for Dan's edits-in-progress WG internal copy is:
>   http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/RDFCore/Schema/20010618/
> 
>   ACTION: 2001-06-22#7: Brian: Do a writeup of the containers proposal.
> 
>   More discussion on the F2F. 20-30 people expected to come.
> 
> Issues:
> 
>   Out of time. Did not cover any of the ISSUEs listed.
> 
> Date of next meeting:
> 
>   One week, 2001-06-29. Same time, same place.
> 
> [1] http://www.semanticweb.org/SWWS/



