docno="lists-057-11437022"
received="Thu May 23 14:10:01 2002"
isoreceived="20020523181001"
sent="Fri, 24 May 2002 02:50:30 +0900"
isosent="20020523175030"
name="Katuragawa"
email="katuragawa@intap.or.jp"
subject="Translation of your(W3C) Technical Imformal   Reports"
id="4.2.0.58.J.20020524025002.04aad158@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-translators@w3.org


Messers Richard Fikes and Deborah McGuinness



Dear Sirs.



Thank you for your favor to let us allow to translate your technical 
informal report for INTAP homepage.

The titles of your informal papers which have been translated in Japanese are;



  1. Frequently asked questions (FAQ)

     http://www.w3.org/RDF/FAQ/

  2. What the semantic Web isn't but can represent (1998)

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/RDFnot.html

  3. RDF and Relational databases (1998) (link added 2001)

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/RDB-RDF.html

  4. Conceptual Graphs and the semantic Web (2001)

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/CG.html

  5. Why RDF model is not exactly the XML model (1999)

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/RDF-XML.html

  6. Assumed syntax - a simpler RDF syntax used in the following. (1999)

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Syntax.html

  7. Identity: how to identify what in RDF (2000/02)

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Identity.html

  8. Interpretation expressed as RDF property (language, etc)(2000/03)

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/InterpretationProperties.html

  9. Semantic Web Toolbox: Logic & trust in XML-RDF?(1999)

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Toolbox.html

10. Semantics and Interpretation (and dig.sig.) (1999/12/1) Philosophical bits

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Interpretation.html

11. Logic and the semantic web (1999)

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Logic.html

12. Rules and facts: Inference engines and the Semantic Web (2000/1)

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Rules.html

13. Limiting the damage of an inconsistency (2000/1)

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Inconsistent.html

14. Metadata Architecture

     http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Metadata.html

15. The Web Ontology Language (OWL)

     http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-webont-wg/2002Jan/att-0061/01-s 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-webont-wg/2002Jan/att-0061/01-swol.text

16. Use cases on collection management

     http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-archive/2002Jan/att-0019/01-part

17. Content Interoperability Use Case final draft

     http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-webont-wg/2002Jan/0066.html

18. Web services use cases

     http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-webont-wg/2002Jan/0083.html

19. General Requirements document

     http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-webont-wg/2002Jan/0062.html



Thanking your kind consideration on this matter.

If any query, please let us know.



                Yours truly,

                Yasuyoshi KATURAGAWA



                Interoperability Technology Association

                for Information Processing, Japan  (INTAP)

                Bunkyo Green Court Center Office 13F

                2-28-8, Honkomagome Bunkyo-ku

                Tokyo 113-6591 JAPAN

                Telephone     +81-3-5977-1301

                Facsimile     +81-3-5977-1302

                E-mail        katuragawa@intap.or.jp

                Homepage      http://www.intap.or.jp/



P.S.

As you know, our organization, Interoperability Technology Association for 
Information Processing, Japan (INTAP) is a non-profit organization 
established in 1985 under the support of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and 
Industry (METI, formerly called MITI) of the Japanese government. Our 
homepage address is;http://www.net.intap.or.jp/INTAP/index.html



  The purpose of INTAP is to conduct and promote the R&D and surveys 
concerning the Internet and web technologies from the viewpoint of the 
interoperability. For this purpose, we have been studying on the viablility 
of the Semantic web technology in our organization which consists of the 
researchers of our member companies and university. I act as one of the 
Secretariat of the committee.



  As one of the activities of the committee, we held "the Semantic Web 
Conference" in Tokyo on October 29th, 2001 jointly with the SFC of Keio 
University who is one of the three hosts of the W3C. One of the speakers 
was Dr. Stuart Wiebel of the OCLC. The purpose of the conference was to 
make the attendants know about the importance and the future possibility of 
the Semantic web technology. We have been doing our effort to make the 
technology development expedite in Japan in cooperation with oversears 
researches as a public research organization. We do not intend to sell and 
make profit by the translation of your paper. As above-mentioned, we only 
intend to show it in our homepage so that the researchers in Japan 
including our committee's members may be able to access to the latest 
information on the Semantic web technology.



