docno="lists-079-4984783"
received="Mon Jun  9 17:32:04 2003"
isoreceived="20030609213204"
sent="Mon, 9 Jun 2003 16:22:18 -0500"
isosent="20030609212218"
name="Section 508.US"
email="tagi11@cox.net"
subject="[w3c-wai-ig] &lt;none&gt;"
id="008401c32ecd$352b2820$6400a8c0@n7v4j1"
charset="Windows-1252"
expires="-1"


To:<w3c-wai-ig@w3.org>

Hello All-

Forwarded Press Release

http://www.hisoftware.com/press/flada.html

Full Text of Release:

State of Florida Governors ADA Working Group in Collaboration with
Florida s State Technology Office Selects HiSoftware Content Quality
and Accessibility Solutions

Concord, NH June 06, 2003  HiSoftware Company, the leader in enterprise
content quality management solutions, announced today that the State of
Florida Governors ADA Working Group will be implementing AccVerify,
AccRepair and AccMonitor Server from HiSoftware Company to manage
state-wide accessibility initiatives. This project is a collaborative
effort between the Governors ADA Working Group, the Florida Department
of Management Services, and the Florida State Technology Office (STO).

This initiative is part of an emerging policy framework that recognizes
the vision of Governor Jeb Bush to maximize the accessibility of Florida
Government to all of its citizens. By so doing, citizens are empowered
with information to make informed choices to improve the quality of
their lives, which is particularly critical for persons with
disabilities.

This is one component of the Working Groups Accessible Electronic
Information Technology (A-eIT) program. It is tied to the Working
Groups mission and also incorporates their federal Systems Change
effort know as the Real Choice Partnership Project which is part of
President George Bush s New Freedom Initiative spearheading community
living for persons with disabilities across the nation.

HiSoftware provides out-of-the-box testing and reporting for
accessibility, privacy, searchability and usability standards,
empowering organizations to keep up with ever-changing Web technologies
and standards. The software will be made available to evaluate,
remediate and manage the State of Floridas websites and web
applications for conformance with accessibility guidelines as directed
by Governor Bush in 2002. The Governor s ADA Working Group coordinates
plans and oversees accessibility education for State government
agencies.

The State of Florida Governors ADA Working Group and the STO join a
growing list of government agencies turning to HiSoftware Company for
content quality and accessibility compliance solutions, including the
U.S. Department of Transportation, Internal Revenue Service, and
Department of Defense. HiSoftware Company also works with Fortune 1000
corporations including Microsoft Corporation, Mercury Interactive, and
Commerce One, State and local government agencies and educational
institutions: http://www.hisoftware.com/access/scustomers.html

Under the terms of the agreement, HiSoftware Company will provide an
enterprise license of its AccMonitor Server software to the Governors
ADA Working Group for use by its webmasters, application developers, and
Section 508 compliance experts. The Governors ADA Working Group, in
partnership with the State Technology Offices (STO) web application
developers, will also be able to utilize HiSoftwares user-driven
interactive desktop solutions, AccVerify and AccRepair, and AccVerify
and AccRepair for Microsoft FrontPage to test and remediate their
projects for compliance with Section 508...

Section 508, an amendment to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, requires
electronic and information technology that is used, developed, and
procured by the Federal government to be accessible to people with
disabilities. Governor Jeb Bush adopted Section 508 as the standard for
state government in all electronic information and the purchasing of
information technology.


Inquiries to the State of Florida can be directed to:

Lloyd J. Tribley, MS
Program Director
ADA Working Group -
Real Choice Partnership
850.922.4103, x108
lloyd.tribley@myflorida.com


ABOUT HISOFTWARE
HiSoftware Company, the leader in enterprise content quality management
solutions, provides innovative products that empower quality assurance
teams, content developers, Web site architects, and company executives
to work collaboratively on their efforts to create and manage corporate
Web standards for Accessibility, Privacy, Searchability, Usability and
custom guidelines and policies. HiSoftwares integrated, full lifecycle
solutions dramatically reduce the time required to test, manage and
deploy e-business Web sites.

HiSoftware works closely with industry leaders and visionaries to
provide solutions for today's information accessibility, content
quality, search and retrieval needs. HiSoftwares customers represent
Fortune 500 companies, and many of the largest e-commerce, government,
and educational sites in North America and around the world and include
ChevronTexaco, Commerce One, Mercury Interactive, and Microsoft
Government.

Founded in 1998, HiSoftware Company maintains North American corporate
headquarters in Concord, New Hampshire. Further information about
HiSoftware can be found online at www.hisoftware.com



 
##############################################
Michael "pegglegg" Van Randen
 
1236 Greystone Lane
Pensacola Florida, 32514
850-206-4715

pegglegg@pegglegg.com
Section508.us 
Ever wonder what the speed of lightning would be if it didn't zigzag?
 
It don't take a genius to spot a goat in a flock of sheep.
---------- Will Rogers -----------
 Section 508.US, Inc offers complete training, assessment, and
 remediation and consulting on any and all IT projects.
 Our focus is on Accessibility not exclusion.
#############################################



