docno="lists-095-11008800"
received="Tue May 21 16:31:39 2002"
isoreceived="20020521203139"
sent="Tue, 21 May 2002 13:30:36 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20020521203036"
name="rdm@docreate.net"
email="rdm@docreate.net"
subject="Amaya for OpenGL &amp; TouchGraph?"
id="20020521133102.3965.h003.c000.wm@mail.docreate.net.criticalpath.net"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:www-amaya@w3.org
Cc:Paul.Cheyrou-Lagreze@inrialpes.fr



 ('binary' encoding is not supported, stored as-is)


 ('binary' encoding is not supported, stored as-is)
Might abstraction resolve the issue of cross-coding? To
enable this, a data set of 'code equivalents' could be
set up and made available at W3C, to be developed over
time. Such a data set would allow highly efficient
language translation, even if not immediately allowing
the most efficient coding in specific languages.

It could enable cross-platform programming and
cross-platform software integration to occur very much
more easily and faster than otherwise possible. This
might, for example, be possible using Amaya plus a
mailing list or plus web forms. For efficiency, forms
might be best, with submissions being written to an
online (inbound) database, to be checked by staff who
would, at their discretion, update the translation set
(outbound) server database. Abuse of web forms could be
checked with a username and password, so that abusers
of the system could be blocked. 

While abstraction may be a demanding and large task, I
would try it myself with either computer code or human
language translation if the money and the servers were
available. At various stages in an open development
process it might become evident that the outcomes
benefit many more than only those whose efforts it
absorbs.

For further information on the idea, please see
attached, or http://w3.docreate.net/ (to be made
available for as long as possible). All feedback is
greatly appreciated.

A note on the version of Amaya (OpenGL) that I
downloaded recently - it seems to use a lot of
processing power (my CPU is 400MHz Pentium II Processor
Intel MMX, 64MB RAM, running Win98). I checked because
the OpenGL version seemed slower than predecessors.
Cursor positioning appears different (ahead of) the
area it is editing sometimes. Also, when at full zoom
at the end of a document, when zooming out the vertical
size of the page area does not adjust to keep the text
in view. Thus, the page shrinks and disappears upwards
out of view.

Regards and Thanks,
Rob Moore






text/html attachment: abs.htm




