docno="lists-085-0044349"
received="Wed Dec 20 09:43:01 2000"
isoreceived="20001220144301"
sent="Wed, 20 Dec 2000 08:44:23 -0600"
isosent="20001220144423"
name="Jon Gunderson"
email="jongund@uiuc.edu"
subject="AGENDA: W3C User Agent Teleconference 21 December 2000"
id="4.3.1.2.20001220084117.032bcaf0@staff.uiuc.edu"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

WAI UA Telecon for December 21th, 2000

Chair: Jon Gunderson
Date: Thursday, 21 December 2000
Time: 2:00 pm to 4:00 pm Eastern Standard Time, USA
Call-in: Longfellow Bridge (+1) (617) 252-1038

Agenda

Review Action Items

Announcements

    1.Next User Agent face-to-face meeting in Boston on 1-2 March 2001

Discussion

    1.Update on glossary group formed in WCAG

    2.Update on joint meeting with DOM working group

    3.Update on joint meeting with CSS working group

    4.Issue #415: Definition of active element: too broad (checkpoint 7.4)
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#415

    5.Issue #416: Add requirement: To select text with the keyboard?
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#416

    6.Issue #417: Checkpoint 7.5: Add to min reqs to not start searching 
from beginning without alert
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#417

    7.Issue #418: Checkpoint 7.5: Search should include alt text.
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#418

    8.Issue #419: Checkpoint 8.3: Recommend removing font as minimal 
requirement
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#419

    9.Issue #420: Checkpoint 8.3: Add config requirement to prompt for 
confirmation when activating a fee link
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#420

   10.Issue #421: Checkpoint 8.6: Clarification about intent required.
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#421

   11.Issue #422: Checkpoint 8.8: Clarification of usage of terms active 
element/focus + techniques
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#422

   12.Issue #423: Checkpoint 9.3: Need min requirement for how/where conf 
information presented.
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#423

   13.Issue #424: Checkpoint 9.3: Do author-specified shortcuts include 
active elements that take mouse input?
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#424

   14.Issue #425: Checkoint 9.5: Need to emphasize more why different from 9.4
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#425

   15.Issue #426: Checkpoint 9.8: Clarify that brief sequences satisfy this 
checkpoint
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#426

   16.Issue #427: Checkpoint 10.1: HTML is not only accessible format
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#427

   17.Issue #428: Checkpoint 10.5: Add requirement that changes that affect 
accessibility be part of dedicated documentation (10.4)
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#428

   18.Issue #429: New requirement: documentation of API for querying 
preferences.
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#429

   19.Issue #430: Checkpoint 3.2: Animations, not just animated images
      http://server.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear-lc2.html#430


Open Action Items

    1.WG: look for user agents that implement mouse events like mouse over 
with the keyboard.

    2.IJ: Follow up with Greg Lowney on issue 389

    3.IJ: (Issue 387) Propose new wording for check point 8.4 reflecting 
discussion on 28 November

    4.IJ: Ask Jason White for CSS implementation information for emacspeak

    5.IJ: Publish new implementation report for the meeting

    6.IJ: Improve wording of note for 4.14 related to CSS reference

    7.IJ, EH, AG: Propose new definitions forterms in question 
(equivalence, text element, etc.)

    8.IJ: Draft new language for 6.2

    9.IJ: Get wording from Martin for thisrequirement (e.g., "conform", 
"implement", etc.) for issue 327

   10.IJ: Propose new checkpoints to see how it feels to harmonize the 
requirements related to comments in issue 348.

   11.IJ: Propose new checkpoints/modifiedcheckpoints for 8.2.

   12.IJ: Add some more explanation about the difference between 7.3 and7.4.

   13.IJ: Proposed fixed wording for 7.5

   14.IJ: Add to techniques a link to Adobe's accessible PDF information.

   15.IJ and AG: Revise the applicability provision and send to WG.

   16.IJ: Ask Adobe why this is hard (issue 382)

   17.IJ: 1.4 needs to be re-written in light of changes in checkpoint 1.1.

   18.IJ: Proposed text in 2.1

   19.IJ: Add a note to 5.8 - content requirements may also apply to user 
interface

   20.IJ: Mention that resizing and overiding absolute values is part of 
some specification in section 1.2

   21.IJ: Clarify the meaning of system colors

   22.IJ:
      a) clarify "recognize style" in checkpoints 4.5
      b) need more rational - refer to WCAG - style less important than 
other content
      c) add note 4.5 - give example of multimedia content that can be 
recognized as style

   23.IJ: Add technique to checkpoint 4.12 to make clear that:
      - This includes author-override if speech engine allows.
      - This includes whatever granularity offered by speech engine.

   24.IJ: Add a clarifying note to 4.11 that if you allow independent 
control of all sources of audio, you satisfy the checkpoint as well.

   25.IJ: Add a P3 checkpoint on user control of windows that automatically 
close

   26.IJ: Add a clarification to checkpoint 4.20 including:
           If a viewport includes other viewports, then this requirement 
only applies to the topmost viewport.
           Add a Note that other requirements still apply to sub-viewports

   27.IJ: Delete second sentence from 4.21

   28.IJ: Add to end of first sentence "with which it overlaps" in 
checkpoint 4.21

   29.IJ: Add "that benefit accessibility" to end of second sentence of 
checkpoint 5.8

   30.JG: Implementation information for guideline 2

   31.JG: Propose a list of things we areexpecting UAs to recognize in 
scripts.

   32.JG: Schedule face-to-face time with other WGs

   33.JG: Talk to Cindy King about captioning

   34.JG: Propose text for the techniques document about synthesized speech 
implementation issues. Notably UA and AT wanting to use the samesynthesizer 
engine.

   35.JG: Contact Greg Lowney and ask for a counter-proposal about minimal 
requirement. for checkpoint 7.3

   36.AG: Send a reply to Phill related to issue 362

   37.GR: Review checkpoints in Guideline 10 for implementation information

   38.GR: Talk to H?kon about CSS support.

   39.GR: Talk to AFB about captioning and positioning

   40.JA: Review checkpoints in Guideline 4 for implementation information

   41.MQ: Send more details about control of speech parameters for the 
techniques document based on OpenBook.

   42.KB: Submit technique on providing information on current item and 
number of items in search



Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
MC-574
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL  61820

Voice: (217) 244-5870
Fax: (217) 333-0248

E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu

WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua



