docno="lists-047-9030423"
received="Thu Jun  7 03:44:57 2001"
isoreceived="20010607074457"
sent="Thu, 7 Jun 2001 09:42:40 +0100"
isosent="20010607084240"
name="jos.deroo.jd@belgium.agfa.com"
email="jos.deroo.jd@belgium.agfa.com"
subject="Re: call for agenda items for telecon"
id="OF9B5CA6F1.90CE5974-ON41256A64.002CE6C1@bayer-ag.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="call for agenda items for telecon"
expires="-1"

To:bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com
Cc:w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org



Brian wrote:
> If you'd like time scheduled at this week's telecon, please let me know by
> 12 noon, UK time Thursday.

1. seeing the bag and reification (I always have to retype that word)
stuff coming closer and closer, I would be glad (but don't insist)
to 'hear' some feedback on the proposal(s) --
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-rdf-logic/2001Jun/0125.html

2. I'm still not convinced that (y)our "to avoid trying to specify
the behaviour of processors when they encounter incorrect RDF" is
enough, but is also a "declarative matter" (certainly in the
'context' of 'nestings') --
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2001Jun/0057.html

--
Jos De Roo, AGFA http://www.agfa.com/w3c/jdroo/



