docno="lists-031-5257417"
received="Wed Aug 21 12:01:23 2002"
isoreceived="20020821160123"
sent="Wed, 21 Aug 2002 16:59:13 +0100"
isosent="20020821155913"
name="MR, SHEHU IDRIS"
email="shehu_idris1945@yahoo.co.uk"
subject="[svg-testsuite-comments] &lt;none&gt;"
id="200208211601.MAA05897@tux.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"



  
 From:  Mr. SHEHU  IDRIS
       
    

Urgent Business Relationship

Attention.

My name is Mr. SHEHU  IDRIS a procurement
accountant with the Federal Ministry of Power and
Steel, Federal Republic of Nigeria and a member of
contract tender board (CTB) of the above named
corporation.

Your esteemed address was reliably introduced to me at
the Nigerian Chamber of Commerce and Industry in my
search for a reliable individual company who can
handle a strictly confidential transaction which
involves the transfer of a reasonable sum of money to
foreign account.

This money amount to a total Thirty Million United
States Dollars (US$30,000,000.00) only, already
extracted from various contracts awarded by the
contract tenders board, as a result over invoicing by
the concerned officials has been draft to represent
final payment for a contract that has been executed to
the Ministry of Power and steel some years back. The
money is now floating in the Central Bank of Nigeria
(CBN) awaiting claim by a foreign partner whose status
we now want you to assume.

Now is the optimum period to consumate this
transaction following the presidential directive to
all corporations to pay off all foreign debts.  I
therefore, seek for your assistance to remit this
money into your personal or company's account.  In my
last meeting with other officials involved, it was
unanimously agreed that 20% of the total sum will be
given to you, 75% will be for me and my colleagues,
while 5% will be used to reimburse the expenses that
may be incurred in the process of the transfer.

I assure you that the transaction is 100% risk free as
we have concluded every arrangement to protect the
interest of every one involved, likewise all
modalities for the successful transfer of this money
have been worked out with the federal Ministry of
Finance and the Central Bank of Nigeria to facilitate
the remittance of the money to your designated
account.

If this business proposal interests you, kindly send a
letter of willingness through the above fax number for
the immediate commencement of remittance, this will
enable me furnish you with detail information.

However, I would want to believe that you are honest
enough and will not raise any misgiving attitude in
any aspect of the transaction, so as to tarnish the
confidence reposed on these officers by the nations
financial house.

Meanwhile, you immediate response will be highly
appreciated.

Please treat this information as confidential.

Regards.

Mr. SHEHU  IDRIS



