docno="lists-066-0983810"
received="Wed Dec  9 14:43:05 1998"
isoreceived="19981209194305"
sent="Wed, 9 Dec 1998 14:42:53 -0500 (EST)"
isosent="19981209194253"
name="Al Gilman"
email="asgilman@access.digex.net"
subject="Re: Math in the Page Authoring Guidelines"
id="199812091942.OAA05811@access5.digex.net"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="3.0.3.32.19981209094411.015380f0&#64;physics.orst.edu"
expires="-1"


To:gardner@physics.orst.edu(John Gardner)
Cc:jongund@staff.uiuc.edu,nir@nirdagan.com,w3c-wai-gl@w3.org,raman@adobe.com,gardner@physics.orst.edu

The expression complexity of visual symbolic language for
mathematics breaks the complexity management guidelines for
spoken information.  I see a lot of equations in print with too
many productions in them to be spoken comprehensibly in one
sentence.  It's like one needs to sic a composition teacher on
them and get the argument restated as a sequence of shorter
sentences.

Another way to state this is: "Here is another domain, like
translating programs between programming languages, where a
purely syntactic transformation may yield less-than-desirable
results."

The risk associated with expression complexity is greater in
speech than in print.  Loss of tracking kicks in at a lower
expression complexity.  Articulating some mathematical utterance
as speech may work better if a whole article is compiled, and not
just the text (including math symbol structures) transliterated.

The shape of the compile process would be something like a) build
a knowledge base from the whole article including symbolic
exhibits and verbal voice-over b) segment it into feasible verbal
paragraphs for readout from the knowledge base, c) code-generate
the latter into fluent verbal language.  Or tolerable.

Al



