docno="lists-033-5157558"
received="Thu Oct 31 11:56:17 2002"
isoreceived="20021031165617"
sent="Thu, 31 Oct 2002 17:56:11 +0100"
isosent="20021031165611"
name="DR LAWRENCE NANAKOBI"
email="law20kob@yahoo.com"
subject="Attention"
id="200210311656.LAA26925@tux.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org


From the office of: Dr.Lawrence Nanakobi(C.B.N)
Foreign Remmittance Department



ATTN: Beneficiary Contractor
          
NOTE: THE INFORMATION IN THIS MESSAGE , CONTAINS CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION AND IS
INTENDED SOLELY FOR THE ATTENTION AND USE OF THE NAMED
ADDRESSEE (S). IT MUST NOT BE DISCLOSED TO ANY
PERSON(S) WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION. IF YOU ARE NOT THE
INTENDED RECIPIENT, OR A PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR
DELIVERING IT TO THE INTENDED RECIPIENT, YOU ARE NOT
AUTHORIZED TO AND MUST NOT, DISCLOSE, COPY,DISTRIBUTE,
OR RETAIN THIS MESSAGE OR ANY PART OF IT.

RE: UNPAID CONTRACT SUM 

After waiting to hear from you or your Nigeria
partners for a long time now, I decided to make this
direct approach to you in other not to let it be as if
I have anything in mind against you. I do not know if
you have asked yourself why each time the release of
these fund is approved, all of a sudden, the payment
will be stopped or one problem or the other will come
up. If you have not asked this question or you do not
know, this is an opportunity for me to tell you. 

Some time ago, your Nigerian friend I mean the people
that introduced you to the project approached me
through my dear Wife who works with the federal
Ministry of Finance and requested me to assist
them conclude a money transfer deal they had with you,
they requested me to assist them by removing the
original contractors name, companys name and bank
particulars from Central bank of Nigeria (CBN) vetting
computer and replacing them with your name and your
bank details in order to make you appear as the
rightful beneficiary of this funds. I agreed on
condition that they will pay me $100,000 as soon as
your name appears as the beneficiary.I did as agreed
and demanded to be paid but your friends started
telling me stories. 

They even told me that you promise to send money to
me. Do you know that up till now, I have not received
a single cent from them and have not set my eyes on
any of them. Based on their attitude, I decided to
stop the funds release movement because I cannot be
denied of my right in my own office considering the
risk as it might affect my job. Secondly, I know the
source of the funds and you did not execute any
contract in Nigeria, although I am the only person
privileged to know this information and it is a fact. 

Why I am making this clear to you is that I can see
that you are still making efforts spending money in
order to conclude this project. Now I am ready to
forget the past, I do not need the $100,000 any longer
from you a share of 15% of the total sum. I need your
assurance that those your colleagues will be totally
keep out of this transaction, I know that none of them
is aware of this transaction after trying their best
to conclude it without my consent. 

Finally, I need your promise that no official of the
Central bank of Nigeria will be aware of my
involvement in this regard. Now re-assure me that you
will be willing to offer me the 15% of the fund, that
you will assist my wife and personal assistant to
establish a foreign account in yourcountry where my
share will be lodged. 
 
If you are ready to concludethis business with me,you
can contact me immediately.
so that we can have chat over this issue once and for
all so that we can move forward. But if the reverse is
the case, do not bother yourself to reach me.  

Regards,  
Dr.LAWRENCE NANAKOBI.
Director,Foreign Remmittance Department,Central Bank of
Nigeria. 



