docno="lists-032-15629463"
received="Wed Nov  6 09:32:41 2002"
isoreceived="20021106143241"
sent="Wed, 6 Nov 2002 09:29:28 -0500"
isosent="20021106142928"
name="akingeorge@SAFe-mail.net"
email="akingeorge@SAFe-mail.net"
subject="ex!"
id="N1-qe9n0iN4@SAFe-mail.net"
expires="-1"

To:akingeorge@SAFe-mail.net



                           MR. AKIN GEORGE
                                                      
                          PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT,
                                                      
             AUDITOR GENERAL OF THE FEDERATION. 
                                                      
   E-mail:akingeorge2002@mail.com

                          akingeorge@safe-mail.net





 Fax: 234 1 7599798                            

 

                                                      



Sir,  

             PROPOSAL FOR IMPORT


Kindly permit me to commence this business with you.

My name is Mr. Akin George  a principal accountant
with the Auditor General of the Federation, Lagos. 
About four months ago, the Head of State inaugurated a
probe panel of six to look into Local and Foreign
Contracts awarded by the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture in the last five years of operation.  We
have just concluded and submitted our report of
findings to the Presidency.  Being the Chairman of
this Panel and after consultation with other members,
I have been specifically mandated to arrange this
contact with you.

In the course of our investigation, we discovered
widespread failure to follow laid down guidelines and
procedures in the award, execution and payment of
contracts.  The basic principles of planning,
accountability and transparency were violated in most
of the contracts awarded during the period  in
question.  Of the contracts which we reviewed are some
proposed for outright cancellation, some for
reprocessing/renegotiation and some for immediate
release of outstanding balances.

Some of the contract were awarded to &#147;non-existing&#148;
companies that could only be traced to &#147;printed
letter-headed papers&#148;.  Among such is this particular
one we have unanimously decided to convert to our
personal benefit as compensation for a very demanding
job well done.  The overall value of this contract in
question  is US$120M (One Hundred and Twenty Million
United States Dollars) of which US$98M (Ninety-eight
Million United States Dollars) mobilization advances
has been paid to the non-existing contractor. The
balance of US$22M (Twenty-Two Million, United States
Dollars) is there unclaimed.  It is this outstanding
floating balance we want to transfer out of the
country for import.  The fund will be remitted into
your account solely for the purpose of importation of
Fabric and Textile materials from your country(through
your company) hence this letter of assistance to
you.  Your particular areas of responsibility are to
co-ordinate the transfer and use our share to export
the goods to us.  In this proposed export from your
country, your professional advise and contacts will
help us determine the nature of Fabrics to import. 
Note that before transfer we will raise Purchase Order
to justify the fund for import purpose only.  We are
prepared to compensate you with negotiable percentage
of the total fund for all your expected assistance.

If you are interested in this business transaction,
please contact me on my fax 234 1 7599798 or above
E-mail address so that I can forward to you the
detailed modalities of this transaction.

As  I expect your urgent reply, please treat as urgent
as we are still serving top government
officials.

My regards.

Mr. Akin George.



