docno="lists-015-14952219"
received="Tue Apr  8 12:23:18 2003"
isoreceived="20030408162318"
sent="Tue, 8 Apr 2003 17:21:51 +0100"
isosent="20030408162151"
name="Richard Ishida"
email="ishida@w3.org"
subject="RE: AGENDA: I18N GEO TF telcon, 2003-0409 at 19:00 UTC, 20:00 UK, 12noon Pacific, 3pm Eastern, 5am Australia (next day!)"
id="001501c2fdea$f695eb30$7801000a@w3c40upc3ma3j2"
charset="USASCII"
inreplyto="AGENDA: I18N GEO TF telcon, 2003-0409 at 19:00 UTC, 20:00 UK, 12noon Pacific, 3pm Eastern, 5am Australia (next day!)"
expires="1"

To:<public-i18n-geo@w3.org>



AGENDA
I18N GEO TF teleconference


Please feel free to suggest additional items for the agenda.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bridge   : +1-617-761-6200 (Zakim) with conference code 4186 (spells
"I18N")
Duration : 60-90 minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Day     : Wednesday
Date    : 9 April 2003
Start    : 19:00 UTC, 20:00 UK, 12noon Pacific, 3pm Eastern, 5am
Australia (next
day!)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zakim information    : http://www.w3.org/2002/01/UsingZakim
Zakim bridge monitor : http://www.w3.org/1998/12/bridge/Zakim.html
Zakim IRC bot        : http://www.w3.org/2001/12/zakim-irc-bot.html
------------------------------------------------------------------------


*** indicates a topic that will receive particular attention this week



Draft agenda
============

Review of agenda

Review of actions (see below)

Review of dependencies (see below)

Review of pending edits (see below).

Meetings:

New participants

Review of  recent activity
****Any questions wrt uploading info to the W3C site
-New format developments
-Update on discussions with WAI
-Review of content activity and items in the pipeline


Education & Outreach
****Discuss what we should be doing wrt E&O


Content discussion
-Steve's latest submission?
-Bidi section
-Brainstorming

AOB

\================================================
Details:


CONTENT OWNERS
================

Steve
Anything in section 3 (character sets, encoding, entities)
[first priority]
    Anything in section 10 (Objects)

Martin
character sets & encodings in forms

Lloyd
Forms

Richard 
Bidi

Russ
automatic layout

Andrew
i was thinking of jotting down some notes on the following
areas, and 
then seeing what i could add to other sections.
3 Character sets, character encodings and entities
4 Specifying the language of content
5 Text direction
6.4 Ruby
7 Lists
8 Tables
     8.1 Mirroring tables in bidirectional text
15 Writing source text




ACTIONS (ongoing and new)
=======

ACTION: RI, apply agreed changes to FTF minutes and publish.
DONE

ACTION: AC to create a list of possibilities for 'non-displayable'
characters

ACTION: Lloyd,send a list of deprecated tags in HTML by next meeting 

ACTION: Russ, follow-up wrt possible new member from Trados

Action: Richard, look at ways of making the document print with a
smaller font, while avoiding any WAI issues.

All: send in pointers to existing guidelines 

Suzanne: put together a list of short term vs. long term goals related
to education and outreach - send it to us for discussion 




DEPENDENCIES
=============

None.



EDITS PENDING
=============

Fri 17/01/2003 16:10e, clarify the relationship between 'avoid
escapes' and 'use hex techniques [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:09e, link to the WAI docs section on language
declarations [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:08e, incorporate guidance related to Character
Model & Unicode and Markup Languages [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:07e, time & date: improve rules [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:06e, consider when it is appropriate to mention
source separation [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:04e, say that fragment identifiers shouldn't be
translated [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:03edit, spell out PUA and link to glossary
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:03edit, add normalisation info [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:01edit, add autoresizing and bidi mirroring info
[[ http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html


Fri 17/01/2003 16:01edit, mention video
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:59edit, allude to vertical text in the HTML
techniques
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:58edit, Add a section on printing issues related
to paper sizes to the toc. [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:51edit, make the text print smaller [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Thu 16/01/2003 16:32edit, ac 15jan, add stuff on normalisation

Thu 16/01/2003 16:30edit, ac 15jan, link to WAI lang stuff

Thu 16/01/2003 16:05edit, link to UXML

Thu 16/01/2003 14:42edit, standardise spellings

Thu 16/01/2003 14:29edit, make 2002 2003
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html


============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/ http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/

============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/
http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/



