docno="lists-042-13513481"
received="Mon Jun  7 16:54:01 2004"
isoreceived="20040607205401"
sent="Mon, 7 Jun 2004 13:53:46 -0700"
isosent="20040607205346"
name="Lisa Dusseault"
email="lisa@osafoundation.org"
subject="Meeting planning (was: Re: Announcement of new co-chair)"
id="C4F7A792-B8C4-11D8-9162-000A95B2BB72@osafoundation.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="p06100507bcea80120454&#64;[129.46.227.161]"
expires="-1"


To: WebDAV<w3c-dist-auth@w3.org>, Joe Hildebrand<JHildebrand@jabber.com>


Welcome Joe!

Speaking of meeting, we need to schedule the upcoming meeting pretty 
soon.  I think there's a lot of difficult issues, and in-person 
discussions could really help in resolving difficult issues, so if you 
attend one WebDAV meeting a year, make this the one.  Are there any 
other WG conflicts to avoid in scheduling?  Submissions for the agenda?

Lisa

On Jun 7, 2004, at 1:30 PM, Ted Hardie wrote:

>
> Howdy,
> Patrik Falstrom has let me and Lisa know that he
> cannot dedicate the time to WebDav that he had originally
> intended.  After some discussion with Lisa and Patrik, I have
> asked Joe Hildebrand to take up the role of co-chair in Patrik's stead.
> Please welcome Joe to the post; I'm sure he'll
> be introducing himself both on the list and in the upcoming
> meeting.
> regards,
> Ted Hardie
> co-Chair, Applications Area
>



