docno="lists-052-0684125"
received="Fri Apr 11 03:07:50 2003"
isoreceived="20030411070750"
sent="Fri, 11 Apr 2003 09:08:17 +0300"
isosent="20030411060817"
name="Jeremy Carroll"
email="jjc@hpl.hp.com"
subject="Re: Next telecon agenda: proposals for RDF Concepts"
id="200304110908.17191.jjc@hpl.hp.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="Next telecon agenda: proposals for RDF Concepts"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org




Hi Graham

if I follow the various threads correctly we've now reduced our differences to 
be about:
- how much change is needed to section 3.5 (as a response to pfps-16)
- the details of which changes are "editorial" and which changes are responses 
to which issues.


I hope the latter point can be addressed in the change log and need not take 
any telecon time at present.
On the former point, I am now at an "abstain" sort of level - i.e. if the rest 
of the group want to cut as much text as you are suggesting then I do not 
object.

Jeremy



