docno="lists-033-5193719"
received="Thu Oct 31 18:08:12 2002"
isoreceived="20021031230812"
sent="Thu Oct 31 18:08:12 2002"
isosent="20021031230812"
name="drsteven chukwudi"
email="drsteven.chukwudi1@caramail.com"
subject="REQUEST FOR YOUR ASSISTANCE"
id="1036104718008490@caramail.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:drsteven.chukwudi1@caramail.com


Steven Chukwudi
The Holy Crescent mosque.
40/42 Ago Palace Way
Okota - Isolo
Lagos - Nigeria
E-mail: 


PERMISSION TO REMIT US $21 MILLION INTO YOUR COMPANY OR 
PRIVATE
ACCOUNT.

It is my pleasure to write and inform you of a transaction 
involving
the transfer of US $21,000,000.00 (twenty one million US 
dollars)
only into a foreign account for safekeeping pending my 
arrival with
my colleagues for the sharing with you as the account owner 
into
which the money is remitted. 

I am an accountant with the Nigerian National Petroleum 
Corporation
(NNPC), Lagos and this money originated from over-invoiced 
contract
executed for the corporation some years back. This contract 
has long
been completed by a foreign firm and the contractor duly 
paid. I now
seek if you would permit the surplus to be remitted into 
your
account. As a matter of fact, we are top government 
officials and we
cannot come out openly to claim this amount. This is why we 
are
looking for a competent and honest company or individual 
abroad whose
documents would be tendered by us here in Nigeria as one of 
the
contractors that executed the project. 

However, I would wish to receive your personal assurance 
that you
would not sit on the money when it goes into your account. 
More
importantly, you keep confidential this transaction, in 
order not to
tarnish the confidence repose in the officials involved in 
this
transaction. To effect this transfer, I therefore request 
the
following: YOUR ACCOUNT NUMBER, THE NAME OF YOUR BANK. 
WHERE THE
MONEY WOULD BE TRANSFERRED INTO AND ALSO YOUR PRIVATE FAX 
AND
TELEPHONE NUMBERS FOR QUICK COMMUNICATION. 

So far, after due consultations, you were strongly and 
reliably
recommended to us although we have not met or entered into 
any kind
of contract with you before as to know the extent of your 
honesty,
but based on the recommendations, I personally want to 
believe that
you are honest enough and would not sit on the money if 
finally got
into your account. It is on this note that I consider it 
proper to
write you asking for your permission and support to 
transfer this
amount into your account. You should not fear any risk 
because we
have concluded arrangement to save guide you in the 
transaction. This
business is 100% risk free. Hence it requires high level of
confidence and secrecy. Meanwhile this is the breakdown of 
the
sharing modalities: (A). 10% WILL BE USED TO SETTLE 
TRANSFER CHARGES
AND LEGAL PROTOCOLS. (B). 30% IS FOR USING YOUR ACCOUNT. 
(C).60%
OF IT WILL BE FOR US THE ORIGINATORS. 

Be informed that on completion of this business I will use 
part of my
money to invest in your country under your care. Please 
note that the
transfer operation will take seven to ten working days to be
completed. Please contact me by the above e-mail .
Dr Steven Chukwudi


_________________________________________________________ 
Gagne une PS2 ! Envoie un SMS avec le code PS au 61166
(0,35? Hors co?t du SMS)



