docno="lists-061-2799101"
received="Thu Feb  4 00:40:24 1999"
isoreceived="19990204054024"
sent="Thu, 04 Feb 1999 00:40:47 -0500"
isosent="19990204054047"
name="Judy Brewer"
email="jbrewer@w3.org"
subject="Re: waicard9"
id="3.0.5.32.19990204004047.0095d860@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="199902040000.TAA28459&#64;mail-out-1.tiac.net"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-eo@w3.org

Okay I read absolutely every comment. Thanks to everyone who commented here
& to Daniel for moderating.

I've made some comments below, & whatever makes it through the
discussion-mill during Thursday for version 10 is what goes to GL & IG
Friday a.m. for final review.

(the numbers below are just for reference, not for the card)

- Judy
__________________________________________________________________________

[Comments on waicard9]

1. Quick tips to make accessible websites

- "websites" should be "Web sites"

2. See the complete guidelines at www.w3.org/wai

- I usually don't care about "see" but it seems ironic here when we're
trying to emphasize multi-modality. I don't feel as strongly as Alan that
we have to have a verb here. Recommend we go back to "Complete guidelines
at www.w3.org/WAI."

- I can make sure the printer uses a typeface where the "I" shows up like
an "I" and not like a "1", so that we can use caps for "WAI". If still
unclear given the font choices, I'll ask the printer to make it lower case. 

3. Images & Animations Use the alt attribute to describe the function of
all visuals. 

- I guess I missed something months ago, but I think this works better if
we take out "the function of". "Function of" works OK for animations, but
works without as well; and it is confusing for simple images ("the function
of this image is to whet your appetite to buy our products...?"). I will
concede if this was already beaten into the ground. The newly-added
highlight on function in this sentence I think makes it even more confusing
(even if someone at Sophia did suggest it...)

4. Image Maps Use client-side MAP and text link for hotspots. 

- Should be "text links" not "text link"

5. Multimedia Provide captioning and transcripts of audio, descriptions of
video, and accessible versions when inaccessible formats are used. 

- "in case" would be an improvement over "when" since "when" makes it
sounds like inaccessible multimedia is a "given"

6. Hypertext Links Use text that makes sense when read out of context. No
"Click here". 

- there is room to substitute 'Do not use "click here"' so I think we
should substitute that, to keep the phrasing flow consistent.

7. Page Organization Use headings, lists, and consistent structure. Use CSS
for layout and style. 

- thank you for taking out "No blinking."

8. Graphs & Charts Summarize or use the longdesc attribute. 

- fine!

9. Scripts, Applets, & Plug-ins Provide alternative pages in case active
content is inaccessible or unsupported.

- Can't find an explanation in the list discussion for why "alternative
pages" was substituted for "alternative content" which I think is clearer,
and also further away from the problematic "oh you mean I just need to do
an alternative text version of my site?" Recommend re-using "alternative
content". But then there are two "content" in the sentence. You could
change "active content" back to "active features" ... was there a problem
with "features?

10. Frames Label with the title or name attribute. 

- fine!

11. Tables Make line by line reading sensible. Provide a Summary. Avoid
using tables for column layout.

- Why not use "Summarize." instead of "Provide a summary" (no cap, by the
way). Would be consistent with graphs & charts "Summarize". (e.g. why have
two unnecessary words here when the rest of the card has been stripped
bare...)
          
12. Check your work Validate the HTML. Use evaluation tools and text-only
browser to verify accessibility.

- fine!
________________________________________________________

[Comments on stray list discussion]

13. About the link back to the home page -- I agree it should go to
www.w3.org/WAI. However I plan to have an obvious place to land on the home
page, that says "QuickTips Users" or something like that, with a link to an
on-line version & a brief orientation to how the QuickTips relate to the
real live up-to-date guidelines.

14. About the versioning -- the intent of the QuickTips was to print
massive quantities of something that would be stable, and to change it only
infrequently. Given how popular the pilot versions have been (we have been
taking a steady stream of orders, with good reactions) I expect we'll have
to do reprints every so often anyway. I recommend a date (e.g. 1999/02) in
the bottom-right-back corner, rather than a version number, partly as an
alert to someone accidentally using it four years from now, to signify that
perhaps it's a touch out-of-date and they should check back in for the real
thing. Therefore, we can update it somewhat according to new technologies
or solving of legacy problems, but the idea is that the items on the card
should be very stable.

15. Daniel is arbiter of whatever remaining discussion happens Thursday, to
turn this into waicard10 which will go for slightly less than a week of
comment to GL and IG, with an emphasis only on identifying can't-live-with
items, with only brief wrap-up discussion on EOWG list as it is on its way
to the printer...

Thanks,

Judy


_________________________________________________________________________
Judy Brewer    jbrewer@w3.org    +1.617.258.9741    http://www.w3.org/WAI
Director, Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) International Program Office
World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)

WAI Education & Outreach home page: http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO
WAI EO Charter: http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/charter
EO Deliverables listing: http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/EO-Deliverables



