docno="lists-093-2909075"
received="Mon Jun 23 13:20:43 1997"
isoreceived="19970623172043"
sent="Mon, 23 Jun 1997 07:19:32 -0400 (EDT)"
isosent="19970623111932"
name="Key Information Services"
email="floodgate@keyinfonet.com"
subject="ADVERTISING ON THE INTERNET"
id="199706232364TAA35312@uu.net"
expires="-1"

To:floodgate@keyinfonet.com


Greetings!

I got your e-mail addresses from a web page listed in
one of the many malls on the internet.  If this message
has reached you by mistake, my appologies.  You can
be permanently removed from our list by sending an 
e-mail to remove@keyinfonet.com.   However...

If you are not pleased with the number of customers that
you generate as a result of your web site, consider that
having a web site can be like having a store at the end
of a dirt road....it's hard to get customers to stop if
they don't pass by or don't know you are there.

Direct e-maill marketing is without a doubt the best 
way possible to advertise on the "net".  You can target,
to a large extent, the audience that you want to reach
to let them know what you offer and where to find you.

We are one of the oldest and most reliable distributors of
Floodgate Bulk E-mail software on the net.  If you'd 
like more information, please just send an e-mail to
mailto:floodgate@keyinfonet.com.

The first 10 people that order will receive $1,000 in
grocery coupons on their choice.  If you'd like to offer
this promotional item to your customers, send an e-mail
to coupons@keyinfonet.com.



