docno="lists-101-16071345"
received="Wed Mar 17 17:26:57 2004"
isoreceived="20040317222657"
sent="Wed, 17 Mar 2004 16:26:57 -0600"
isosent="20040317222657"
name="Curt Arnold"
email="carnold@houston.rr.com"
subject="Re: Release of the DOM Level 3 test suite?"
id="338FE122-7862-11D8-AC6C-000393B97126@houston.rr.com"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="1079559724.12050.60.camel&#64;chacal"
expires="-1"


To:www-dom-ts@w3.org


The L1, L2 and L3 Core Suites are in the best condition.  L2 HTML could 
use additional tests to cover totally untested methods like 
HTMLDocument.open (bug 596) and a few tests need to be conditional on 
comments being preserved.  L2 Events could use some tests on HTML 
events, particularly load.  L3 Load and Save has no tests that check 
the effectiveness of the configuration parameters, but some of the L3 
Core tests could be recast to address the same issues in load and save.

I don't have much hope to produce a definitive L3 Validation suite with 
the absence of a implementation to check the test against.  Currently 
only schema validated files are used in the tests and my gut feeling in 
coverage is pretty low.

I have had no response from the JSUnit maintainer on my recent issues.  
Ideally, I'd like JSUnit 2.0 that we distribute to be identical to a 
formal JSUnit release.

The DOM L3 Load and Save bootstrap in the ECMAScript framework is 
currently wishful thinking since it hasn't been tested against the LS 
implementation that Johnny Stenback was doing.

Per Ian Hickson's message and do to the inability to get the Palm 
browser to run JSUnit, I was considering producing self-hosted HTML 
tests like the SVG tests.

The current self-hosted SVG tests do not run in KSVG (so far as I know 
they only run on Batik).  The KSVG developers are aware of the issues 
and will hopefully provide a diagnosis.

If there is a "release" in a week, I'd like it to be identified as a 
working draft or something similar so that a subsequent release isn't 
totally unexpected.


On Mar 17, 2004, at 3:42 PM, Philippe Le Hegaret wrote:

> Curt,
>
> how realistic would it be to release the test suites for Validation,
> Core, and Load/Save in a week? If it is possible, then I'll suggest to
> get on the phone together so that we can discuss what should be done.
>
> Thanks,
>
> Philippe
>
>



