docno="lists-084-1878493"
received="Thu Feb 10 11:12:31 2000"
isoreceived="20000210161231"
sent="Thu, 10 Feb 2000 10:15:30 -0600"
isosent="20000210161530"
name="mark novak"
email="menovak@facstaff.wisc.edu"
subject="Re: PROPOSAL: User Agent Issue 190: Reduce the scope of 5.1 to     say   &quot;write  access only for that which you can do through the UI.&quot;"
id="v01540b06b4c88a4580f8@[128.104.23.196]"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="PROPOSAL: User Agent Issue 190: Reduce the scope of 5.1 to     say   &quot;write  access only for that which you can do through the UI.&quot;"
expires="-1"


To: Jon Gunderson<jongund@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu>,"Gregory J. Rosmaita"<unagi69@concentric.net>,schwer@us.ibm.com, Charles McCathieNevile<charles@w3.org>
Cc: User Agent Guidelines Emailing List<w3c-wai-ua@w3.org>, WAI Protocols&Formats WG<w3c-wai-pf@w3.org>

hi Jon and all

I agree that all elements ought to understand and implement
the appropriate event model, so for the UA, I don't see my
next comment changing the UA process at the moment.

However, I'm not in favor of making this a priority 1, since I'm not
a fan of the event model within DOM 2.  This is an on-going
(I hope ) discussion on the PF/DOM working group lists.

After the events/event model are understood, this checkpoint
may need re-visiting.

mark

At 8:55 AM 2/10/00, Jon Gunderson wrote:
>It seems there is a consensus to merge 5.3 and 5.5 from my proposal into a
>single checkpoint of at least Priority 2 and maybe a priority 1 level.  The
>new checkpoint would require implementation of the event model specified in
>the Candidate Recommendation of DOM2 for all elements.
>
>Jon



