docno="lists-041-15240106"
received="Thu Nov  7 09:36:08 2002"
isoreceived="20021107143608"
sent="Thu, 7 Nov 2002 15:36:04 +0100"
isosent="20021107143604"
name="Julian Reschke"
email="julian.reschke@gmx.de"
subject="RE: WG Agendas for the 55th IETF"
id="JIEGINCHMLABHJBIGKBCKEPBFLAA.julian.reschke@gmx.de"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="000e01c28542$09b3a8a0$620afea9&#64;xythoslap"
expires="-1"

To:"Lisa Dusseault"<lisa@xythos.com>,<w3c-dist-auth@w3c.org>



> From: w3c-dist-auth-request@w3.org
> [mailto:w3c-dist-auth-request@w3.org]On Behalf Of Lisa Dusseault
> Sent: Wednesday, November 06, 2002 4:10 AM
> To: w3c-dist-auth@w3c.org
> Subject: FW: WG Agendas for the 55th IETF
>
>
>
> I will put together the Agenda for the Atlanta meeting.  Here's some
> issues that should be discussed.  Volunteers are *really needed* ( to
> drive discussion on their selected topic) this meeting as I'm *really
> swamped* myself!
>
>
> RFC2518bis
>  - Proposals for client forcing server auth challenge - Ilya?
>  - Required support for ETags
>  - If header evaluation/simplification proposals & compatibility -
> Geoff?
> Other drafts
>  - quota draft
>  - Binding issues coming up on DL
>  - allprop/include draft
> Other issues
>  - Impact of XML namespace changes -- Julian?
>  - ACL submission status
>
> I'm sure I've missed items so let me know.

Lisa,

if you need help/assistance in preparing

>  - allprop/include draft

and

>  - Impact of XML namespace changes -- Julian?

(which should be XML 1.1/ XML namespaces 1.1 changes, right?), please let me
know.

Julian



