docno="lists-023-1432392"
received="Tue Mar  9 08:55:29 2004"
isoreceived="20040309135529"
sent="Tue, 9 Mar 2004 14:54:45 +0100"
isosent="20040309135445"
name="Thierry MICHEL"
email="tmichel@w3.org"
subject="Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 01/22/04"
id="000c01c405de$14c4b1d0$1302010a@wistiti"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<public-tt@w3.org>



Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 01/22/04

Attendees

   Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, Chair pro tem) [GF]
   David Kirby (BBC) [DK]
   Erik Hodge (RealNetworks, Scribe pro tem) [EH]
   Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]

Regrets

   Glenn Adams (XFSI) [GA]

Absent (may have sent regrets that the scribe missed):

   Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]
   Sean Hayes, Microsoft [SH]
   Mike Dolan (invited expert) [MD1]

Names of non-members discussed in the minutes:

   Martin Duerst (W3C) [MD2]
   Bert Bos (W3C) [BB]


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

************************************************************************
1. IRIs and URIs:
************************************************************************

[GF] Should we support IRIs in TT-AF?  W3C has activity studying it
      and several specs are starting to use them.
[TM] Tried to ping W3C's Martin Duerst [MD2] but no reply yet.  I
      looked at the spec and sent W3C abstract requirements for using
      IRIs to TT list.
[GF] Don't know how to implement, but are they only used when called?
      IRIs simply suplement URIs, I think.  Make us backwards
      compatible with URI-only handlers?  Should we get Martin
      Duerst [MD2] on a call?
[TM] Yes.  Should have [MD2] tell us for sure that it won't break
      backwards compatibility, i.e., that IRIs augment URIs and UAs
      can use them if they are able to or fall back on URIs if not.
[TM] W3C says we "should" use IRIs.  Subtitling should support
      internationalization as much as possible.


************************************************************************
2. Addressing public-list comments:
************************************************************************

[GF] Message from Luke-Jr on public list.  What did he say?
[Dk] Luke-Jr says scene markers should have timing.
[GF] Luke-Jr was talking about situation where subtitles where
      burned in w/vid instead of sync'ed.  [GF] says this is implicit,
      as is done in SMIL.
[DK] True.  John Birch's way also works.  They are just accustomed
      to different methods for doing the same thing.
[EH] Did one of these people misunderstand how synchronization of
      multiple media tracks is done (via SMIL / TT)?
[GF] I think the ensuing discussion on the public thread sufficiently
      clarified how SMIL/TT timing works in that regard.
[GF] Nokia's comments from Guido Grassel were resolved last week.
[GF] Let's address comments from Bert Bos [BB]
[DK] [BB] asked: "is R222 (embedding audio) too ambitious"?
[EH] I think [SH] responded that profiles will allow you to work
      this out.  [SH] said something to this effect: "TT-AF should
      be all-inclusive and profiles for audio, for closed captioning
      and subtitles, and for other things should be used to keep
      things simple for those who need that.
[DK] [BB] asked "R301 - why do you need attrib & elements for TT-AF?"
      DK: suppose color is assigned to speaker and we want to change
      color half-way through. Need in-line attrib?  In this case yes;
      R301 should stand as is.
[GF] Agrees w/[DK]; needs attribute for that.


************************************************************************
3. Boston f2f Feb 4-6:
************************************************************************

Registration reminder:
http://www.w3.org/AudioVideo/TT/Group/2004/f2f-Cambridge/Overview.html

[EH] Will anyone be able to call in?  I might be able to on 4th but
      will be unavailable on 5th-6th.
[GF] Yes.  [EH] and others not attending the f2f should submit the
      following prior to the f2f's agenda being created:
        (1) topics they want to discuss by phone
        (2) when they can call in to discuss them
[DK] Wireless access?
[GF] Probably. For sure will have hub & cables for wired access.


************************************************************************
*** NEW ACTION ITEMS ***
************************************************************************
Action:  [TM] get [MD2] on call next wk
Action:  [GA]: talk about profiles; add to meeting agenda in Boston
Action:  [All]: look over [BB]'s comments for next meeting
Action:  [EH] & [all not coming to f2f]: send to list topics for phone
          conversation and available times


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++


Thierry MICHEL
W3C/ERCIM



