docno="lists-046-10614984"
received="Tue Apr 13 19:01:54 2004"
isoreceived="20040413230154"
sent="Tue, 13 Apr 2004 11:55:47 -0700"
isosent="20040413185547"
name="Steve Parker"
email="sparker@well.com"
subject="RE: Intel killed the smart ID-card"
id="EEEPLBBDAOPGFKPFNHMPCEEBFNAA.sparker@well.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="006301c42173$54764810$0500a8c0&#64;arport"
expires="-1"

To:"Anders Rundgren"<anders.rundgren@telia.com>,<w3c-ietf-xmldsig@w3.org>


"why would you ever want a smart ID card that only supports a fraction of
the other device's ID-related use-cases?"

Why would you ever want a proprietary solution if you could possibly avoid
it?

  -----Original Message-----
  From: w3c-ietf-xmldsig-request@w3.org
[mailto:w3c-ietf-xmldsig-request@w3.org]On Behalf Of Anders Rundgren
  Sent: Tuesday, April 13, 2004 9:21 AM
  To: w3c-ietf-xmldsig@w3.org
  Subject: Intel killed the smart ID-card


  From a recent Intel pressrelease:

  The Intel PXA27x family of processors, formerly code-named "Bulverde,"
adds a number of new technologies to address the needs of cell phone and PDA
users. It is the first product to integrate the Intel Wireless MMX
technology, providing additional performance for 3-D games and advanced
video while improving battery-life. The new chip also utilizes Wireless
Intel SpeedStep technology, enabling significant power savings by
intelligently managing voltage and frequency changes similar to the
technology used in the company?s notebook processors.

  Also for the first time, Intel has integrated important security features
through its Intel Wireless Trusted Platform to provide services such as
trusted boot, secure storage of private information and cryptographic keys,
and support for common security protocols.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------
--

  If you have a device that you already use extensively for other purposes,
that can connect to various services including to local PCs using WLAN, and
this device has a processor of the type above, why would you ever want a
smart ID card that only supports a fraction of the other device's ID-related
use-cases?

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
--



