docno="lists-005-2450134"
received="Thu Mar 25 02:31:32 2004"
isoreceived="20040325073132"
sent="Wed, 24 Mar 2004 15:15:18 +0200"
isosent="20040324131518"
name="felicia musa"
email="feliciamusa@702mail.co.za"
subject="DONATION"
id="web-265937003@mail01.infosat.net"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:feliciamusa@702mail.co.za



Mrs. felicia musa
Plot 37 samson street
Off Dusoma Plaza
Lagos-Nigeria.

I am the above named person from Nigeria. I am married to
Dr. Kazeem
Usman who worked with Nigerian embassy in Ivory Coast for
nine years
before he died in the year 2001. We were married for eleven
years
without a child.He died after a brief illness that lasted
for only four
days. Before his death we were both born again
Christians.Since his
death I decided not to re-marry or get a child outside my
matrimonial
home which the Bible is against.When my late husband was
alive he
deposited the sum of $12 Million (Twelve Million U.S.
Dollars) with a
Security and Finance Company in Europe.

Presently, this money is still under the safe keeping of
the Security
and Finance Company in Nigeria,which they have office in
Europe where
you can claim this fund. Recently, my Doctor told me that I
would not
last for the next three months due to my cancer problems.
Though what
disturbs me most is my stroke . Having known my condition,
I decided to
donate this fund to church or better still a christian
indi! vidual 
that
will utilize this money the way I am going to instruct here
in. I want 
a
church that will use this fund on, orphanages and widows
propagating 
the
word of God and to ensure that the house of God is
maintained.

The Bible made us to understand that Blessed is the hand
that giveth. I
took this decision because I don?t have any child that will
inherit 
this
money and my husband relatives are not Christians and I
don?t want my
husband?s hard earned money to be misused by unbelievers. I
don?t want 
a
situation where this money will be used in an ungodly
manner. Hence the
reason for taking this bold decision.

I am not afraid of death hence I know where I am going. I
know that I 
am
going to be in the bossom of the Lord. Exodus 14 VS 14 says
that the
lord will fight my case and I shall hold my peace. I don?t
need any
telephone communication in this regard because of my health
because of
the presence of my husband?s relatives around me always. I
don?t want
them to know about
this development. With God all things are possible.

As soon as I receive your reply I forward your personal
information to
the Security and Finance Company in Europe so that they
will contact 
you
as the legal owner of this fund,but you have to claim this
fund in
person after my Attorney must have send to you all the
necessary
documents, I will also
issue you a letter of authority that will empower you as
the
original-beneficiary of this fund. I want you and the
church to always
pray for me because the lord is my shephard. My happiness
is that I
lived a life of a worthy Christian.
Whoever that wants to serve the Lord must serve him in
spirit and
truth.Please always be prayerful all through your life.


Any delay in your reply will give me room in sourcing for a
church or
christian individual for this same purpose.

Please assure me that you will act accordingly as i stated 
herein.Hoping to hear from you as soon as possible.

Remain blessed in the name of the Lord.

Yours in Christ,
Mrs. felicia musa.



