docno="lists-015-2108875"
received="Thu Sep 12 07:13:39 2002"
isoreceived="20020912111339"
sent="Thu, 12 Sep 2002 07:13:38 0400 (EDT)"
isosent="20020912111338"
name="Dan Brickley"
email="danbri@w3.org"
subject="SWAD(Europe) logo(s)"
id="Pine.LNX.4.30.0209120656420.9801100000@tux.w3.org"
charset="USASCII"
expires="1"

To:<public-esw@w3.org>,<em@w3.org>




Eric, SWAD-Europeans,

We have some resources in SWAD-Europe for publicity materials. This is to
promote both the project itself, and 'Semantic Web' tools, technology,
adoption (ie. RDF etc). So we need some distinct identity for the project
'as a project' but also to avoid sending a confusing msg when promoting
RDF adoption. We'll likely be making t-shirts, flyers, mugs etc. as part
of swad-europe publicity/outreach; some of this will have a bias towards
swad-e as project, some of it towards general promotion of semantic
webbery.

So this creates a challenge w.r.t. logos etc. For eg., if we wanted to
create a mug with 'rdf developer' or 'semantic web' developer on it, plus
a swad-e logo, we're in similiar territory to the work Eric Miller (cc:'d)
has already done with the RDF logo (see http://www.w3.org/RDF/icons/). I'd
like SWAD-Europe to complement this outreach work rather than pull in a
different direction; but also for SWAD-Europe to have a distinct identity
and recognisable logo.

So one way of proceeding would be for SWAD-E folk to point a designer at
some raw materials (eg. the RDF logo Eric produced) plus some constraints
(eg. that we want to project EUropean-ness, etc) and see what they could
come up with. Eric, if you could say a bit more about your plans re
general Semantic Web education'n'outreach, and particularly logos etc.,
that'd be very useful. I'd also want to get input from W3C comms team;
Eric -- have you already talked to them re the design linked above?

There is some looming urgency in that there's some Commission meeting
(sorry don't have details to hand; Libby/Kate can you send round info?
dates?) for which it'd be good to have a logo, flyers etc. T-shirts and
the like can come later...

Dan



