docno="lists-000-0065591"
received="Mon Jun  1 12:57:36 1998"
isoreceived="19980601165736"
sent="Mon, 1 Jun 1998 12:57:46 -0400 (EDT)"
isosent="19980601165746"
name="Al Gilman"
email="asgilman@access.digex.net"
subject="Re: CNET slides now available online"
id="199806011657.MAA23849@access4.digex.net"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="199805132216.PAA04212&#64;central.cnet.com"
expires="-1"


To:daniela@cnet.com(Daniel B. Austin)
Cc:html-future@w3.org,w3c@cnet.com,cottonc@cnet.com,freds@cnet.com,gregs@cnet.com,kennethn@cnet.com


One of the dominant themes in your presentation is to put some
distance between the retained form of content and its presented
form on the screen.

There is a lot of interest in this objective.  It is entirely
consistent with the best I can do in terms of laying down a
long-term demand profile for accessibility.

I think there are two reasons your message is not winning more
support:

1. You arbitrarily assign the HTML name to the surface form,
whereas the whole architecture in a sense is the replacement for
HTML as it is currently used.  And nobody wins unless the whole
architecture including reusable retained form emerges.

2. You don't address the third-party aspects of the scenario.
The architecture has to support reliable interoperation of
presentation transforms and content patches created by different
parties.  This means that there needs to be a Web-community
consensus on the schema of attributes and methods which connect
presentation transforms with retained stuff.

To get the arm's length you want, there has to be meaningful
progress on point 2. above, and you don't mention that.

Al

PS: The remark in your notice about "you need ...-browser to view
this properly" is a little pessimistic.  The message is pretty
clear as presented in 80 X 24 ASCII characters using lynx.  You
are closer to where you want to be than you think.



