docno="lists-086-12328445"
received="Fri Aug 29 20:37:31 1997"
isoreceived="19970830003731"
sent="Fri, 29 Aug 1997 19:14:29 +0100"
isosent="19970829181429"
name="jaap van lelieveld"
email="Jaap.van.Lelieveld@inter.NL.net"
subject="Re: Oof...da!    HOW TO CONTINUE THE WORK!"
id="FGxB08h/nDDF092yn@inter.nl.net"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
inreplyto="199708081534.LAA14656&#64;access1.digex.net"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-wai-wg@w3.org(WAI Working Group)


Dear meeting friends,

I have been waiting to see what happend to this message.
It looks as if these good remarks are not followed up at all.
I would lile to stress though I like this approach

Al Gilman <asgilman@access.digex.net> wrote (squence changed):
> We are not really ready to freeze a set of HTML usage guidelines
> because we still have some possibility to change the language
> itself.  And we need to develop more mutual understanding
> throughout the group of tradeoffs between solutions in markup
> vs. solutions in client programs.  While some of us clearly have
> a good understanding of these, we are not all equally up on that
> training curve.  To achieve universal design in the demands we
> make, we need to continue to invest in teaching and learning
> within the group.  The disability experts teaching about the
> problem and the Web experts teaching about possible solutions.

We are not solving a temporary problem.
The problem will not be SOLVED after the work of this
working group has been finished.

Of course it is good and necessary to try to reduce some of the
problems we are facing. We must be aware though the world
will develop repidly.
Therefore part of our work must be invested in:
- Setting up a strategy for the future developments.
- Building a structure to really keep in touch with things
  happening.
We must be well aware some of these activities may well occur
outside the scope of W3C. Still we need access to information.

The approach in this message shows a good start:

Al Gilman <asgilman@access.digex.net> wrote (squence changed):
> To manage your workscope, consider
> Murray's advice: give us a catalog of items, where for each item
> we have identified:
> 
> - What is a problem
> - Why it's a problem
> - An alternative approach that is not a problem [if known]
> - 1/2/3 grade rating from straw poll on 5 Aug 97.
> - other votes taken in the process such as "A non-null ALT
> should be required on all IMG elements."

I would like to propose some agenda items for the next meeting:
- How can we implement the above strategy.
- We decided on splitting up in specific working groups.
  Before the next meeting it should be clear:
  - Which group does what: terms of reference, report to,
    report format, report date etc.
  - Who will take part in which group
  - Relationship between the sub-groups.
- Working schedule for the period to come.


Best regards,
Jaap

Message from: Jaap van Lelieveld      The Netherlands
              Chairman of EBU commission on Technical Devices and Services
E-mail:       Jaap.van.Lelieveld@inter.nl.net

USING: YARN V0.92 as an offline reader, and
       UQWK / OLMENU under UNIX for mail and news transfer



