docno="lists-076-7945263"
received="Wed Oct 25 14:03:45 2000"
isoreceived="20001025180345"
sent="Wed, 25 Oct 2000 11:03:36 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20001025180336"
name="Suzanne Nikolaisen"
email="nikolaisen@yahoo.com"
subject="Here's an idea..."
id="20001025180336.12401.qmail@web2205.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org

Hi,

The light bulb went on over my head the other night
and I've been thinking about this ever since.  I think
that somebody should build a developer site for
accessibility.  As a developer I use free developer
sites as learning tools.  Sites to pick up tutorials,
read articles, grab code, and find free resources. 
This allows me to quickly learn about a technology and
start using it while I'm working (For example this is
how I learned CSS).  Some of these sites are: 

http://www.reallybig.com/
http://www.bignosebird.com/
http://www.zdnet.com/devhead/
http://htmlgoodies.earthweb.com/

I would think that building such a site about
accessibility for developers could bridge the gap to
developers and allow them easy access to learn how to
build more accessible sites.  Kind of a one stop place
for all sorts of accessiblity information.  (Not
necessarily "bigconamehere.com", but something built
as a resource for developers that could house info on
various platforms and all types of accessibility, from
screen readers, to palm pilots.  All of it.  I have
all sorts of ideas about this and would do it but I
don't have the time, money, or experience with
accessibilty to do it.  I really think this could be
key in getting developers involved in developing
accessible sites.

The site could be linked to other "mainstream" dev
sites which in turn would drive traffic to the site. 
(Kind of like the shampoo commercial from the 70's -
someone will see the site, and they'll tell 2 friends,
who'll tell 2 friends, and so on...)

Now somebody's supposed to say, "Hey, good idea!" and
run with it.

Naive'ly,

Suzanne Nikolaisen
http://home.earthlink.net/~nikolaisen


__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Messenger - Talk while you surf!  It's FREE.
http://im.yahoo.com/



