docno="lists-059-6728650"
received="Wed Mar 15 18:19:11 2000"
isoreceived="20000315231911"
sent="Wed, 15 Mar 2000 18:19:10 -0500 (EST)"
isosent="20000315231910"
name="Charles McCathieNevile"
email="charles@w3.org"
subject="March 15 AU Minutes (fwd)"
id="Pine.LNX.4.20.0003151818490.6999-100000@tux.w3.org"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To: WAI AU Guidelines<w3c-wai-au@w3.org>


Thanks to Jan for taking these. I will get them onto the web shortly I hope.

Charles

--
Charles McCathieNevile    mailto:charles@w3.org    phone: +61 (0) 409 134 136
W3C Web Accessibility Initiative                      http://www.w3.org/WAI
Location: I-cubed, 110 Victoria Street, Carlton VIC 3053
Postal: GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne 3001,  Australia 

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Wed, 15 Mar 2000 16:40:56 -0500
From: Jan Richards <jan.richards@utoronto.ca>
To: Charles McCathieNevile <charles@w3.org>
Subject: March 15 AU Minutes

Notes

Marjolein Katsma
Jutta Treviranus
Jan Richards
Dick Brown
CMN
Gregory 

JT: AGENDA: action items, struct of techniques, csun agenda
JT: go ahead for joint meeting with ERT on Sat. following CSUN.

ACTION ITEMS

DB: got Heather Swayne (HS) involved.  Nothing else, yet.
JT: Could we tell you which screen shots to get
DB: Yes, HS will be going to CSUN, WCAG and ATAG
CMN joins
DB: will get HS to do more 

Templates:

GR: has been working on templates. Trying to contact Phill.
CMN: templates must be anonymized - don't need to be perfect
JT: they need to have context
CMN: some people were concerned about CSS in CMN's templates. But they
should look ok generally.
CMN: still needs to check over his templates
CMN: needs to a WCAG check off for templates - needs help docs for
templates.  All templates should include this.
MK: In the same doc?
CMN: Yes. People who are entirely WYSIWYG will just write over.

JR: Reports on new approach- maybe it should be an appendix

CMN: haven't gotten anywhere so far on different views

CMN: lots of hyper links
JT: it would be nice to use hyperliking
JR: I'm trying to minimize necessity of hyperlinking (include text of
checkpoint)

CMN: script stuff is coming slowly

JT: struct of document - some people want one document with multiple
views.  Core will still be according to checkpoint. JR's part will be
one appendix.
CMN: can acheive some simplification by cross-reference.
JT: does anybody have a sense that we are being specific enough?
CMN: we ought to be able to write techniques that meet or go some way
toward meeting each checkpoint.Ex. techs 1 3 and 9 will meet checkpoint.
JT: sometimes the techs are REQUIRED
CMN: no, we should just leave them all as suggestions
JT: does anyway see places we need more detail?
JT: criteria for meeting cps vs. suggestions
DB: concerned bout being to specific
JT: will send developer comments requesting more spefic criteria.

JT: CSUN agenda stuff..
MK: needs more input from developers about Guideline 7
DB: HS has concerns with rel. priorities
DB: still problems with conf. dates on web page.
-- 
Jan Richards
jan.richards@utoronto.ca
Access Software Designer
Adaptive Technology Resource Centre
University of Toronto
(416) 946-7060



