docno="lists-030-4260216"
received="Thu Nov 28 04:49:59 2002"
isoreceived="20021128094959"
sent="Tue, 26 Nov 2002 10:05:13 +0100"
isosent="20021126090513"
name="MUHAMMED USMAN"
email="mm5555usman@indiatimes.com"
subject="PLEASE ASSIST"
id="20021128094827.032B2140C8@w3c2.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:smil-editors@w3.org



Attn:  President / CEO
 
 
 Beloved,
 It is my humble pleasure to write you this important
 letter, irrespective of the fact that we have not
 meet for the first time or known each other before.
 HoweverI was able to get your contact through an
 International profile in my earnest searching for
 areliable and trust worthy person, firm, or group of
 persons that can handle this confidential
 transaction with me.
 
 I am MALLAM MUHAMMED USMAN, a Sierra Leonean Nationality
Son of LATE CHIEF SWARANDEN USMAN, the former Minister
of Gold and Diamond. In the past years my country has
been involved in a very horrible and bloody war in
which so many lives and properties were destroyed and
many atrocities were committed against humanity. My
Father was killed during the war, because of his
support for the rebels movement in Sierra Leone. He
was accused of embezzelement of fund from the
co-operation and funding ethnic Mining Forces,however,
the truth and evidence for the untold matter that saw
his death was as a sacrifice for restoration of peace
in our Country.
 
 Before his death in my visit to him in detention
 hedisclosed to me of an existence of USD$15.8m,
100Kilos Alluvial Gold dust and 150 carat Nucal
Diamond in sealed boxes, which he kept in underground
vault of our villa in Free - Town,after the war, I
hurried to the villa as I am lucky to survive with my
junior  sisters, as my parent's elder brothers
 and a senior sister were killed in the war, I still
 found the boxes intact and decided to move it out of
my country immediately with different identity,
 withholding the trust of the real content for
 security reasons, even the security house is not
aware that the boxes contains money, Gold & diamond
till now.We are presently in NIGERIA.boarder
as refugees status,although the war has ended, but I
considered it unsafe  to go back to our country since
we have lost our parents, brothers & sisters, and
properties confiscated by Sierra Leone government and
our present condition of suffering here is unbearable.

 
 I am not exposed with outside world and have no
 knowledge in business for an investment, for this
reason, I am soliciting for your assistance
 to please make a residential arrangement for us in
 your country and to help us invest this money wisely
for our future living as we have nothing else left
than those consignments.I have the believe in you by
the Grace of Allah and I am ready to go into
negotiation/agreement with you on terms of sharing the
cash and the process for the selling of the Gold &
diamond for our living.The security House have agreed
to relocate those consignments for us to any of their
branches in ASIA,EUROPE& AMERICA with
guarantee I assure you risk free in this transaction.
 
 I await your urgent response via my e-mail 
address:mm5555usman@indiatimes.com to enable me give you
 further information on the development of things and
 how we should go about it.
 
 Thanks & remain blessed.
 
 Yours faithfully,
 MUHAMMED USMAN



