docno="lists-023-0963748"
received="Fri Jan  9 11:36:48 2004"
isoreceived="20040109163648"
sent="Fri, 9 Jan 2004 17:36:41 +0100"
isosent="20040109163641"
name="Thierry MICHEL"
email="tmichel@w3.org"
subject="Draft Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 09/11/03"
id="002f01c3d6ce$c3602150$0200a8c0@wistiti"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<public-tt@w3.org>




Draft Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 09/11/03

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM) [GF1]
  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]
  David Kirby (BBC) [DK]

Regrets

  Markus Gylling (Daisy) [MG]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]
  Sean Hayes (Microsoft) [SH]

Absent

  Gerry Field (WGBH/NCAM) [GF2]
  Markku Hakkinen (JSRPD) [MH]
  George Kerscher (Daisy) [GK]
  Brad Botkin (WGBH/NCAM) [BB]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]
  Mike Dolan (Invited Expert) [MD]

************************************************************************
Agenda
************************************************************************

1. Resolve Timed Auto-Flow Text Property Requirements
2. Review TT-AF-1-0 Specification Status
3. Plan Upcoming F2F Agenda

************************************************************************
1. Resolve Timed Auto-Flow Text Property Requirements
************************************************************************

[GA] Suggests adding new requirement bullet in style section that
defines small number of additional styles to handle requirements that
John Birch has expressed. Language of bullet would say "the following
features MAY be supported by TT AF", rather than say "... SHALL be
supported ...". This way we can defer both the technical specification
of these features until we write the TT AF as well as any decision that
these features will be defined or used in TT AF at all.

[GF] Suggests sending notification to public reflector announcing second
WD and indicating that comments would be appreciated by F2F so we can
resolve at that time.

Action: [GA] To complete update of TT-AF-1-0-REQ document by 09/15 to
send to W3C Comm Team for publishing as second WD.

************************************************************************
2. Review TT-AF-1-0 Specification Status and Work
************************************************************************

[GA] Has not had time to make progress on content part, but hopes to do
so by F2F.

[EH] Hopes to have input by F2F on animation and timing.

[EH] Should we reference SMIL or incorporate defs?

[GA] Suggests defining all vocabulary (elements, attributes, etc.)
directly in TT-AF spec rather than referencing other specs. However, if
semantics is inherited from other spec and the specification of those
semantics is lengthy, then we may consider reference.

[EH] Notes that copying definitions ends up with multiple copies.

[GA] SMIL specs not undergoing revision; very static. Feels probably
best to incorporate defs directly, particularly since we will severly
subset.

[GF] Volunteers to help with spec drafting.

************************************************************************
3. Plan Upcoming F2F Agenda
************************************************************************

[GA] Discusses ideas about F2F agenda - major items: (1) finalize TT-AF-
1-0-REQ for publishing as W3C Note; (2) make significant progress on
TT-AF-1-0 specification.

Action: [GA] Publish draft agenda for F2F ASAP.

************************************************************************
Next Meeting
************************************************************************

[GA] Next meetings:

09/18/03 - Telecon
10/01/03 - F2F Day 1
10/02/03 - F2F Day 2

[GA] Notes that W3C Workshop on Binary XML will occur on 09/24 - 09/26;
where GA will represent TTWG needs regarding streaming TTAF content.

************************************************************************
ADJOURNS at 1220h Eastern Time (US)
************************************************************************

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [GA] To construct table of features/requirements for which we
need a volunteer to provide example(s). Also solicit examples based
on existing systems, such as 3GPP, AML, SAMI, etc.

Action: [SH] Will cook AML example as SAMI as a variant example.

Action: [MG] Will contribute Daisy timed text example.

Action: [GA] Will contribute some examples showing generic timed text.

Action: [TM] Will contribute generic example.

Action: [GA] Add to 2nd note under R306 that break-* applies to inline
vocabulary.

Action: [GA] Put index.html (or equiv) into aml directory to fix.

Action: [GA] To complete update of TT-AF-1-0-REQ document by 09/15 to
send to W3C Comm Team for publishing as second WD.

Action: [GA] Publish draft agenda for F2F ASAP.

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

None.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Thierry MICHEL
W3C/ERCIM



