docno="lists-059-8020153"
received="Tue Sep 12 16:13:29 2000"
isoreceived="20000912201329"
sent="Tue, 12 Sep 2000 16:13:04 -0400"
isosent="20000912201304"
name="Jan Richards"
email="jan.richards@utoronto.ca"
subject="Minutes (September 12/2000)"
id="39BE8E50.490C8469@utoronto.ca"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:"w3c-wai-au@w3.org"<w3c-wai-au@w3.org>

Minutes :

William Loughborough
CMN
Jutta Treviranus
Fred Barnett
Heather Swayne
Lou Nell (?)
Mathias
Jan Richards

Discussion:
Plenary Sessions
CMN: proposal for a plenary meeting of many W3C groups in Feb. in
Boston.? Because we have so much cross-over with many of these it might
be a good idea to attend. ? Lots of different options for contact.
Charles can attend.? He would like antro from other groups, short
meeting for AU alone, lots of time for informal meetings.
WL: How many days?
CMN: 3 days - could have WG meetings before or after.? Perhaps its
better not for AU to meet at CSUN.
WL: Can be there.
HS: When?
CMN: Late Feb. or early March.
HS: Microsoft supports multiple working groups meeting at the same
event.? Someone will be sent.
Mathias: Someone will probably be sent.
JT: Sounds like people think it is a good idea.
***********************
CMN's Report from WAP in Hong Kong
CMN: Attended by lots of peope working mobile phones etc.? Lots of
multimodal interfaces.? Very keen on authoring one set of content that
can be viewed by many different devices.? Dev. indep. authoring meeting
coming up in Bristol.
CMN: There is WAI represenmtation in the Voice Browser working group
activity.
Rough Notes: Notes: www.w3.org/2000/09/cmn-hk/
JT: How is charter???? 
CMN: WG members should post Charter update 
www.w3.org/WAI/AU/charter4/
CMN: had to leave out evaluation processes

[Minuting taking computer crashes]

JR: Gives a general update on evaluation process
JT: Maybe 
JR: Sometimes we need to decide how much testing of something is enough
JR: Sometimes some checkpoints are split in the process.
CMN:Also sometimes checkpoints can be combined.
CMN: Will start pulling together his interactive stuff.
JT: Can WL and FB give update.
WL: OK
FB: Already sent.
CMN: With regard to WL's questions "Do we want to force tools to
implement all of GL" the answer is Yes.  If things are unrealistic we
can talk to GL. 
WL: Wonder whether FOG index in software worthwhile?
CMN:  User still needs to use part of tool properly.
WL: Who would use it.
CMN: Someone must.
JR: Just because it used one way now doesn't mean it couldn't be used
more strongly.
HS: What is the FOG index.
CMN, WL: Explanation.
WL: Action Item: Will write up something involving text.
JT: Any other action items?
Mathias: Has taken JR's image stuff and used it to add examples to
multimedia stuff.
CMN: Let's put together a first draft.
CMN: Who wants to do control flow stuff.  Service based things with many
layers of interaction.
JT: Will get a comment from another person interested in navigation but
not in the WG.
CMN: will post draft
JR: Will post newest version for images.
JT: next week we will look over the collection of evaluation process
documents.




-- 
Jan Richards
Access Software Designer
Adaptive Technology Resource Centre
University of Toronto

Phone: (416) 946-7060
Fax:   (416) 971-2896
Email: jan.richards@utoronto.ca



