docno="lists-099-12601567"
received="Thu Jan 22 08:35:19 2004"
isoreceived="20040122133519"
sent="Thu, 22 Jan 2004 13:34:03 +0000 (GMT)"
isosent="20040122133403"
name="Libby Miller"
email="Libby.Miller@bristol.ac.uk"
subject="Re: [w3photo] General update"
id="Pine.GSO.4.58.0401221113240.9815@mail.ilrt.bris.ac.uk"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="37E2E28C-4D05-11D8-9EB9-000393B64216&#64;fotonotes.net"
expires="-1"

To: Greg Elin<greg@fotonotes.net>
Cc: Masahide Kanzaki<post@kanzaki.com>,semantic-photolist@unitboy.com




On Thu, 22 Jan 2004, Greg Elin wrote:

> I haven't posted to the list much this week, but I have been joining in
> Tuesday and Wednesday's IRC chat.
>
> My sense is things are going well. Decisions are getting made, and we
> have the servers, ontology, and sample RDF in place in order to put
> online the first version of the repository. I think that can happen
> today and tomorrow.
>
> Let's catch up with ourselves. Let's use today/tomorrow to organize
> what we have on the servers and update wiki pages.  Things are moving
> so rapidly, in fact, I don't think the documentation has caught up with
> the decisions! I'll do some updating of documents and facilitating.  I
> propose everyone hold off any "new" ideas to this and table any
> outstanding issues until next week.  We are spread out around the
> world. Let's pull what we've together...and give everyone a chance to
> wake up and get caught up with this overly productive group.
>
> If some decision was made, but seems to have gotten dropped out, please
> note it to yourself (or send a message off list) and then next week
> will look at what is online and what the outstanding and missed, etc.
>
> Thanks!
>
> Greg Elin
>
>
> P.S. Over the past couple of days Jim Ley, Morten, Libby, and Masahide
> have really narrowed down issues related to the RDF for describing an
> annotated area of the image.  Correct me if I am incorrect, but I think
> enough work has been done that what needs to happen next is a
> cross-referencing and checking specific details?  I know that Jim and
> Morten wanted to see how their stuff would synch up with Jen Golbeck's.
>   I've been working at fixing Fotonotes to work with these ideas.
>

Among the actions from Wednesday's meeting[1] was one for me to
assimilate the ideas from the meetings[2][3] into a couple of sample
RDF documents for discussion here. I hope this will be useful - I'm not
sure that I convinced anyone else that it was useful, but I personally
find it very handy as a developer to have sample instance documents to
work from. I'm in a meeting all today but I'll do this tomorrow.

cheers,

Libby

[1] http://rdfig.xmlhack.com/2004/01/21/2004-01-21.html#1074694974.149634
[2] http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/discovery/chatlogs/rdfig/2004-01-20.html#T15-59-53
[3] http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/discovery/chatlogs/rdfig/2004-01-21.html#T15-59-20

==================================
This is the TEMPORARY discussion list for the W3 Semantic-Photo History
Project. For questions, contact greg@fotonotes.net.

Subscribe Instructions
To:   semantic-photolist-request@unitboy.com
Body: subscribe

Unsubscribe Instructions
To:   semantic-photolist-request@unitboy.com
Body: unsubscribe

Help
To:   semantic-photolist-request@unitboy.com
Body: help



