docno="lists-061-5328898"
received="Sun Jul 18 20:31:14 1999"
isoreceived="19990719003114"
sent="Sun, 18 Jul 1999 20:25:47 -0700"
isosent="19990719032547"
name="Robert Neff"
email="robneff@home.com"
subject="Guidelines"
id="000a01bed196$650cf480$64520518@alex1.va.home.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
inreplyto="37926372.F75CF0B6&#64;gorge.net"
expires="-1"


To:"wai-gl"<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>,<w3c-wai-eo@w3.org>

William wrote>A lot of changes are before us now in part because of two big
factors: our guidelines may be referred to in regulations throughout the
world

rob>this troubles me because I do not think the W3C or the members
understands that they are now going "legal" and the ramifications of this
effort.  This is a paradigm shift in responsibility and ethics; this is a
change in responsibility and status.  As governments are ready to embrace
the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, has the W3C and the W3C WAI built
up their infrastructure to support this effort?

Here is a primary example.  If the United States adopts the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines version 1, are they ready to answer the challenges
and or backlash from the web development community.  If web developers have
trouble implementing the Guidelines, is the W3C going to offer support?  The
W3C must be prepeared for a response whether it be positive, negative or
both.  The Public Affairs and Technical Staff must be briefed, avaialbel and
geared up to answer inquiries and support their position.  Basically,
pre-plan.  The Guidelines will be taken literally and is the W3C ramped up
to defend as well as support and market the Guidelines?

When I am asked if I support the Guidelines, my response should come as no
surprise (see previous discussions), I cannot support the Guidelines in
their current form.  Therefore, may I suggest we either move to revision 2
or add a statement or rider to the guidelines that state here are the issues
that we are considering for revision.

As a matter of fact, I think it would be very professional for the WAI to
provide a statement or rider soonest.

rob neff



