docno="lists-022-16687798"
received="Fri Mar 14 16:30:00 2003"
isoreceived="20030314213000"
sent="Fri, 14 Mar 2003 16:30:05 -0500"
isosent="20030314213005"
name="Glenn A. Adams"
email="glenn@xfsi.com"
subject="Minutes - 01/28/03 Telecon"
id="7249D02C4D2DFD4D80F2E040E8CAF37C03B83A@longxuyen.xfsi.com"
charset="utf-8"
expires="-1"


To:"W3C TT Public"<public-tt@w3.org>


Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 01/28/03

Attendees

Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF1]
Gerry Field (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF2]
Patrick Schmitz (Ludicrum, Invited Expert) [PS]
Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]
George Kerscher (Daisy) [GK]
Markku Hakkinen (JSRPD) [MH]
Markus Gylling (Daisy) [MG]
Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]

************************************************************************
Proposed Agenda
************************************************************************

1. Introduction of Participants
2. Basic Logistics
   * Scribe
   * Telecom Slot
3. Charter Review
4. Operating as a "Works in Public" WG
   * Public vs Member Mail Lists
   * Public WG Page
5. Participant Recruitment
6. Task Force Requirements Document Review
7. Formulate Action Plan
   * Determine Core Requirements
8. Plan Face to Face Meeting during Tech Plenary
   * Invitation from SVG WG to meeet jointly

Agenda accepted without modification.

************************************************************************
1. Introductions
************************************************************************

[*] Members introduce themselves.

************************************************************************
2. Basic Logistics
************************************************************************

[GA] No previous meeting minutes, as this is first meeting of group.

[GA] There appears to be problem with reflector not forwarding messages
on member-tt@w3.org.

ACTION: [TM] check on member reflector problems.

[GA] Queries about time slot. Notes inconvenience for West Coast US,
but later may be problem for East Asia if we have participants from
there.

[PS] Wonders if slot can be moved later, at least until East Asia
participates.

ACTION: [TM] try to schedule time slot for 1300h Eastern Time (US);
1000h Pacific Time (US).

************************************************************************
3. Charter Review
************************************************************************

[GA] Reviews deliverables, duration, success criteria, milestones.

[TM] Will we start with task force requirements document or write
new doc?

[GA] Thinks we will need to refine requirements document. Needs
prioritization. Too many features currently listed as "must or should".

[GF1] Need to refine.

[PS] Agrees that we should prioritize.

[PS] Would also like to see one page road map document. Take some notes
in charter and make more explicit.

[GA] Asks if [PS] can draft.

[PS] Unable to commit time to draft.

[GF1] Asks for clarification from [PS].

[PS] XHTML WG has road map.

ACTION: [PS] To send link to road map.

************************************************************************
4. Operating as a "Works in Public" WG
************************************************************************

[GA] Describes "works in public" operations; publish minutes in public,
possibly with redaction; publish technical working drafts early and
publicly.

[TM] Notes that Web Services WG is working in this fashion. They
publish minutes after group approval; don't publish draft minutes.
Redact minutes as necessary.

RESOLVE: Follow web services WG on minutes publishing; keep
non-redacted minutes in member only area.

[GA] Will publish draft agenda in minutes reflector, not public.

[TM] Members should declare anything they don't want minuted in
meetings.

************************************************************************
5. Participant Recruitment
************************************************************************

[TM] Apple may join; MSFT and HP said they would join. Philips would
also like to join, but may be limited in participation.

[EH] If we don't get Apple or 3GPP, then they can always give feedback
based on published works.

[GA] Has contacted Apple; awaiting response. Plans to contact consumer
electronics companies that are W3C members: Matsushita, Sony, Sharp, etc.
Requests members to recruit or send contact info to [GA] to follow-up.

ACTION: [*] Contact potential participants or send contact info to [GA].

************************************************************************
6. Task Force Requirements Document Review
************************************************************************

[GA] Discusses requirements. Notes considerable body of requirements.
Suggests need for separation among "Core" and "Peripheral" requirements.
QuickText, RealText, SAMI, 3GPP Timed Text should be analyzed for
"core common features" upon which consensus can be readily established.
"non-core features" need advocates (champions) to make case for and
produce standard ready text.

[GK] Notes that there is a problem with terminology of captioning,
subtitling, timed text (independently from video usage).

[GA] Notes general confusion in industry about terminology. Need
to have good definitions in TT REC.

[GF2] Believes [GK] is discussing something even further. Delivery of a
timed text service may be something different than captioning and
subtitling.

[GA] For example, ticker-tape type displays. Scrolling signs.

[GF1] Offers to transmit core feature proposal.

[GA] Asks about document format.

[TM] Use (valid) XHTML/HTML. Can help prepare documents.

[GA] Asks about whether these "half-baked" docs should go to
public or member reflectors.

[TM] Not sure.

[PS?] Suggest member reflector.

[GA] Agrees.

ACTION: [GF1] To send proposal on core features to member reflector.

ACTION: [GA] To send comparative analysis material to member reflector.

************************************************************************
7. Formulate Action Plan
************************************************************************

[GA] Out of time; will have to take up on reflector and/or next telecon.

************************************************************************
8. Plan Face to Face
************************************************************************

[GA] Out of time; will have to take up on reflector and/or next telecon.

************************************************************************
ADJOURNS at 1000h Eastern Time (US)
************************************************************************

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

RESOLVE: Follow web services WG on minutes publishing; keep
non-redacted minutes in member only area.

*** ACTION ITEMS ***

ACTION: [TM] check on member reflector problems.

ACTION: [TM] try to schedule time slot for 1300h Eastern Time (US);
1000h Pacific Time (US).

ACTION: [PS] To send link to HTML WG road map.

ACTION: [*] Contact potential participants or send contact info to [GA].

ACTION: [GF1] To send proposal on core features to member reflector.

ACTION: [GA] To send comparative analysis material to member reflector.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



