docno="lists-022-13668279"
received="Thu Aug  7 13:53:06 2003"
isoreceived="20030807175306"
sent="Thu, 7 Aug 2003 13:53:05 -0400"
isosent="20030807175305"
name="Glenn A. Adams"
email="glenn@xfsi.com"
subject="Minutes - 06/05/03 Telecon"
id="7249D02C4D2DFD4D80F2E040E8CAF37C03BCC6@longxuyen.xfsi.com"
charset="utf-8"
expires="-1"


To:"W3C TT Public"<public-tt@w3.org>



Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 06/05/03

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Markus Gylling (Daisy) [MG]
  Markku Hakkinen (JSRPD) [MH]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]
  David Kirby (BBC) [DK]
  Sean Hayes (Microsoft) [SH]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF1]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]
  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]

Regrets

  Mike Dolan (Invited Expert) [MD]

Absent

  Gerry Field (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF2]
  George Kerscher (Daisy) [GK]
  Brad Botkin (WGBH/NCAM) [BB]
  Patrick Schmitz (Ludicrum, Invited Expert) [PS]

************************************************************************
Agenda
************************************************************************

1. Action Item Review
2. Open Issues
3. F2F Planning

************************************************************************
1. Action Items Review
************************************************************************

Action: [GA] to contact someone from TEI and Speech Markup Group to
review requirements for speech markup and aural properties.

[GA] Ongoing. Requests [DK] to provide details of their approach at
F2F.

Action: [GA] Ask [DS] to submit proposal or agree to close issue.
Should resolve by F2F meeting.

[DS] May use something like <br/>.

[GA] Will finalize at F2F.

Action: [SH] to draft potential requirements or agree to close issue.
Should resolve by F2F meeting.

[GA] Try to resolve at F2F.

Action: [GA] work with [TM] to investigate telecon F2F support from F2F
in UK.

[GA] To be finalized over the next few days. To use Zakim and query
members who wants to join.
  
Action: [EH], [SH], [DS] to investigate hosting a F2F on US West Coast
in Sep-Oct time frame.

[GA] Discusses meeting time/location; agreement to hold on 10/1 - 10/2
at MSFT in Redmond.

[EH] Can serve as backup facility if required.

Action: [GA] Send announcement that no telecon will be held on 05/29.

Done.

************************************************************************
3. Open Issue Review
************************************************************************

I-12: Need to define interaction of time containers with content
containment structure.

[GA] Have been studying this problem. Some overlap with XSS [1] work.
Will discuss more at F2F.

I-13: [DS] Under R211, do we want to support an intermediate mode where
bidi and glyph sub still occur post authoring?

To discuss at F2F.

I-14: Whether to support embedded or external references to audio clips
to handle aural presentation?

To discuss at F2F. [SH] Will check with SSML specialists at MSFT.

************************************************************************
3. F2F Meeting Planning
************************************************************************

Action: [GA] Send draft agenda by 06/06 incorporating existing actions/
issues; also review requirements doc for any issues to discuss.

[DK] Meeting will be held in Cedar Room in A Block Buildings. Will need
to sign in at main gate.

[DS] Any dinner plans?

[DK] Will arrange for dinner. What night?

[GA] Let's go for Wednesday evening (06/11); 6-7 persons.

************************************************************************
ADJOURNS at 1240h Eastern Time (US)
************************************************************************

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [GA] to contact someone from TEI and Speech Markup Group to
review requirements for speech markup and aural properties.

Action: [GA] to send draft agenda for F2F by 06/06.

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

I-12: Need to define interaction of time containers with content
containment structure.

I-13: [DS] Under R211, do we want to support an intermediate mode where
bidi and glyph sub still occur post authoring?

I-14: Whether to support embedded or external references to audio clips
to handle aural presentation?

*** URIS ***

[1] http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/Group/2003/WD-xss-1-0-20030604-editors-copy/

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



