docno="lists-004-1089139"
received="Sun Feb 23 20:18:33 2003"
isoreceived="20030224011833"
sent="Mon, 24 Feb 2003 02:10:09 +0100"
isosent="20030224011009"
name="emeka2@hknetmail.com"
email="emeka2@hknetmail.com"
subject="GOOD DAY TO YOU"
id="200302240118.h1O1IPL10520@frink.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



reply: emeka20@hknetmail.com

Dear friend, 

URGENT: TRANSFER OF U.S.$10,110,00.00 ONLY 

My search for an individual who is capable of pursuing 
a highly confidential & urgent business transaction 
has neccessitated my contacting you on this viable 
venture.. 

My colleagues & I are members of a recently 
constituted Contract Review & Award Committee of the 
Government owned by nigeria.We are currently in possession of 
 ($10,110,000.00),currently in a secure 
suspense account of the Central Bank of 
Nigeria,awaiting payment into a foreign account of our 
choice. 

This money is as a result of a deal deliberately done 
by us, where weover-invoiced one of the contracts 
awarded under our supervision. The original contract 
has already been executed & commissioned, leaving 
uswith the balance of $10,110,000.00. What we need is 
a foreign bank accountfor us to transfer these funds. 
This we are unable to do ourselves becausewe are 
ordinary civil servants, & the laws of our country 
forbid us fromoperating foreign accounts. 

If you agree to assist us in this transaction, my 
colleagues & I have 
decided to share the funds as follows: 

h 20% to you for providing us with an account & for 
safe keeping of 
the funds. 

h 70%to us the originators of this deal. 

h 10% to cover any expenses (both local & 
international) that might 
be incurred during the course of this transaction. 

Be assured that this transaction is absolutely risk 
free on your part,& all modalities have been put in 
place for a smooth & easy transferwithin 14 working 
days from the commencement of the deal. 

Contact me as soon as you receive this via my e-mail 
address, whetheryou are interested or not. In case you 
are not, it will enable us tofind another alternative 
arrangement. Please endeavour to keep this 
transactionto yourself, as we are top government 
officials & we do not want anytype of exposure. 

I await your immediate reply. 

Best regards, 
DR EMEKA FRANK

PLEASE YOUR PHONE NUMBER WILL BE NEEDED ON THIS TRANSACTION. 



