docno="lists-099-12318864"
received="Mon Jan 19 12:16:58 2004"
isoreceived="20040119171658"
sent="Mon, 19 Jan 2004 17:13:12 +0000 (GMT)"
isosent="20040119171312"
name="Libby Miller"
email="Libby.Miller@bristol.ac.uk"
subject="Re: [w3photo] Meetings about image vocabulary/combining vocabs"
id="Pine.GSO.4.58.0401191703320.22248@mail.ilrt.bris.ac.uk"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="Pine.GSO.4.58.0401151344520.22535&#64;mail.ilrt.bris.ac.uk"
expires="-1"

To:semantic-photolist@unitboy.com





On Thu, 15 Jan 2004, Libby Miller wrote:

>
> I'd like to propose a couple of meetings.
>
> 1. one to talk about the possible vocabularies for images and parts of
> images
>
> 2. to decide which vocabularies to use and come up with a sample
> piece of RDF that represents the sort of annotation we want
>
>
> (1) is one of the purposes of the new W3C proposed image description
> list, but obviously we need a quick decision - we need to pick one that
> does what we want, and we have a couple of examples.
>
> (2) is also becoming urgent, as it impacts on everthing else, including
> the UI and getting on with annotating.
>
> Somewhere we might also talk about what things we need to identify
> (images, people, parts of images, places etc), and how we might go about
> it.
>
> Any takers? I can do (almost) any time - any prefered?


How about a meeting tomorrow about parts of images (1) and one on
Wednesday to decide on a sample piece of RDF (2)?

I suggest 1600 GMT for both.

This could change - please let me know (offlist?) if you can't make it
and you want to be there, and we'll try and come to some sort of
compromise. Alternatively, if you have a strong view and can't make
either meeting, send a message here describing your position on either topic.

I think there will be much more discussion in the future about how best
to describe parts of images in the RDF community, so tomorrow's meeting
would only be a discussion with a view to setting out a proposal for
this project to use.

Libby


==================================
This is the TEMPORARY discussion list for the W3 Semantic-Photo History
Project. For questions, contact greg@fotonotes.net.

Subscribe Instructions
To:   semantic-photolist-request@unitboy.com
Body: subscribe

Unsubscribe Instructions
To:   semantic-photolist-request@unitboy.com
Body: unsubscribe

Help
To:   semantic-photolist-request@unitboy.com
Body: help



