docno="lists-053-16022044"
received="Thu Jan  8 12:48:50 2004"
isoreceived="20040108174850"
sent="Thu, 8 Jan 2004 12:46:19 -0500"
isosent="20040108174619"
name="Dan Brickley"
email="danbri@w3.org"
subject="Re: revising the semantics PR document"
id="20040108174618.GH19144@w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="3FFD8D5D.8070702&#64;hplb.hpl.hp.com"
expires="-1"

To: Brian McBride<bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com>
Cc: Dan Connolly<connolly@w3.org>, pat hayes<phayes@ihmc.us>, Herman ter Horst<herman.ter.horst@philips.com>, Eric Miller<em@w3.org>, Jeremy Carroll<jjc@hplb.hpl.hp.com>, Sandro Hawke<sandro@w3.org>, rdf core<w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org>



I just checked with EricM; 16th is fine, but we can't slip beyond then.

Dan

* Brian McBride <bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com> [2004-01-08 17:03+0000]
> 
> It looks like we need to make some minor revisions to the semantics doc. 
>    DanC has asked for a WG decision to approve the change.
> 
> Eric, Sandro, will a decision at a telecon on 16 Jan 2004 be timely from 
> your point of view?
> 
> I think what we need is a clear description of the proposed changes for 
> review.  Pat, I see a proposal from you at:
> 
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-rdf-comments/2004JanMar/thread.html
> 
> Have you and Herman agreed to this?  I see Graham has reviewed it and is 
> happy with it.
> 
> If anyone has issues with approving this change, please raise them asap.
> 
> Brian
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 



