docno="lists-015-16455175"
received="Wed Feb  5 08:58:17 2003"
isoreceived="20030205135817"
sent="Wed, 5 Feb 2003 13:58:15 0000"
isosent="20030205135815"
name="Richard Ishida"
email="ishida@w3.org"
subject="MINUTES: I18n GEO teleconference 030229"
id="001401c2cd1e$a1501c10$6401a8c0@w3c40upc3ma3j2"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To:<public-i18n-geo@w3.org>




MINUTES 

W3C I18n GEO Phone Conference
29 Jan 2003

Present: Andrew, Lloyd, Richard (chair, scribe), Russ, Steve, Tex
Regrets: None


New Actions
============

ACTION: Richard, create a list of section owners.


Prior Action Items
==============

ACTION: All, look at the table of contents of
http://www.w3.org/International/geo/html-tech/ and send proposals to the
list for topics you would like to work on.
DONE

ACTION: Richard, draw up some ideas on how to develop content, and
document the structure of the documents for editors 
DONE First part only

ACTION: Russ, investigate possible tools and approaches for managing
distributed content development
In progress

Action: Richard, look at ways of making the document print with a
smaller font, while avoiding any WAI issues.

Action: Martin, provide ideas for dealing with character sets &
encodings in forms. 
[in progress]

All: register for Tech Plenary (see below)
[in progress] lloyd pete
Reduced rate for hotel only until Saturday (1 Feb)

All: Look at Richard's TOC and send in comments.
[ongoing]

All: read through HTML 4.0 spec and send notes to the list about
possible guidelines. 
[closed]

Richard: Merge discussion doc and decisions into a framework doc (reqts
doc) & also review and respond to WAI requirements doc  
[pending]

All: send in pointers to existing guidelines 
[ongoing]

Suzanne: put together a list of short term vs. long term goals related
to education and outreach - send it to us for discussion 
[pending]

Russ: contact the following people/orgs in search of additional
participants: john jenkins (Apple), andrea vine (Sun), nuray aykin
(Siemens), trados, boeing 
[andrea contacted - she will be back at Sun in March and will let us
know her availability; Nuray - checking with her mgr & ac rep; No
response from others Intel - michael cooperstein plus one other
(encoding)]

Tex: contact the following people/orgs in search of additional
participants: mark davis, lisa moore (IBM), hideki hiura (Sun) 
[mail sent, no replies yet; Spoke with Able - one employee that might be
appropriate]

Richard: craig cummings (Oracle), yves savourel (RWS), christian lieske
(SAP), frank tang (Netscape), hakon lee (Opera) 
[Craig is too busy right now.  Mail sent to christian, frank and hakon -
no reponse yet; Yves contacted, in review]





Dependencies
===========
None.


New members
===========
Pete Sigrist introduced himself to the group.
Welcome Pete.


Review of work process proposal
========================
Discuss of
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0044.html

Summary: It's difficult to know whether the structure proposed will work
or not until we get some content together.  Some people may prefer to
submit ideas in a different format.  We should try to impose as much
structure as possible to help us to merge with WAI techniques and
present different views, including checklists.  

The basic process outline seems reasonable.  We should establish a list
of topic owners, who will develop a particular area.

ACTION: Richard, create a list of section owners.


Content development
===============
We should add a section on how to layout pages.

We should also consider issues relating to providing for multilingual
communities.

Title of authoring techniques doc changed to say 'internationalization'.


Glossary
=======
We will put off the discussion about how to put together a glossary
until discussions between W3C groups advances further.  In the meantime
we will collect terms that ought to be in a glossary.  Tex will own
this.



Next meeting:
==========
Same time, same bridge, next week.




EDITS PENDING
=============

Fri 17/01/2003 16:10e, clarify the relationship between 'avoid
escapes' and 'use hex techniques [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:09e, link to the WAI docs section on language
declarations [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:08e, incorporate guidance related to Character
Model & Unicode and Markup Languages [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:08e, ensure use of lower case througout for
element names eg. META
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html
Done

Fri 17/01/2003 16:07e, time & date: improve rules [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:06e, consider when it is appropriate to mention
source separation [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:04e, say that fragment identifiers shouldn't be
translated [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:03edit, spell out PUA and link to glossary
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:03edit, add normalisation info [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 16:01edit, add autoresizing and bidi mirroring info
[[ http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html


Fri 17/01/2003 16:01edit, mention video
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:59edit, allude to vertical text in the HTML
techniques
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:58edit, Add a section on printing issues related
to paper sizes to the toc. [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:51edit, make the text print smaller [[
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

Fri 17/01/2003 15:49edit, change title
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html
Done

Thu 16/01/2003 16:32edit, ac 15jan, add stuff on normalisation

Thu 16/01/2003 16:30edit, ac 15jan, link to WAI lang stuff

Thu 16/01/2003 16:05edit, link to UXML

Thu 16/01/2003 14:42edit, standardise spellings

Thu 16/01/2003 14:29edit, make 2002 2003
[[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003Jan/0020.html

============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/ http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/



