docno="lists-066-4676058"
received="Fri Jan 15 19:25:36 1999"
isoreceived="19990116002536"
sent="Sat, 16 Jan 1999 11:25:30 +1100 (AEDT)"
isosent="19990116002530"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
subject="RE: renaming the guidelines (issue #3 from yesterday's telecon)"
id="Pine.SUN.3.95.990116111429.17430A-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.EDU.AU"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="BB61526CDE70D2119D0F00805FBECA2F04CC1B47&#64;RED-MSG-55"
expires="-1"

To: WAI Markup Guidelines<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


Such expressions as "element", "table", etc., are generic terms and are
not specific to HTML. The term "element" for example connotes an SGML
concept. Likewise, a table or a link can be constructed in XML or SGML, as
can any other document component mentioned in the guidelines. XSL can be
used in place of CSS in relation to any guideline or checkpoint that
mentions style sheets.

I would also dispute the proposition that the guidelines assume that the
web consists of static documents. Rather, what they assert is that until
the technology evolves further, scripts executed by client software are
and will remain inaccessible.

Accessible scripting at the client level requires three components: (1) a
scripting language which the user agent can interpret; (2) a mechanism by
which changes caused by the script are reflected in the user interface,
including effective communication with any non-visual interfaces that are
being used; (3) appropriate handling of such changes by non-visual
interfaces so that the user can understand and work with the dynamic
content.

On the other hand, scripts executed by the server and which provide
appropriate HTML to the client are appropriate and accessible using
today's user agents and adaptive technologies. Thus it is necessary to
recognise that, in order to make web content accessible, there must be a
static version of it made available in addition to, or in place of, any
version that relies on user agents to execute scripts.



