docno="lists-016-3032561"
received="Tue May 13 15:24:08 2003"
isoreceived="20030513192408"
sent="Tue, 13 May 2003 20:23:03 +0100"
isosent="20030513192303"
name="Richard Ishida"
email="ishida@w3.org"
subject="MINUTES: I18n GEO teleconference 030507"
id="000001c31985$136692e0$6401a8c0@w3c40upc3ma3j2"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To:<public-i18n-geo@w3.org>



MINUTES 

W3C I18n GEO Phone Conference
7 May 2003

Present: Richard (chair, scribe), Andrew, Lloyd, Phil, Tex, Russ, Martin

Regrets/Absent: Steve, Suzanne, Peter, Barry


New Actions
============

ACTION: RI, put up a skeleton parking lot for potential questions

ACTION: All, attempt to contribute to the parking lot by editing and
uploading RI's skeleton



Prior Action Items
==============

ACTION: PA, Do some design work with RI's help: link from International
(& GEO) page, template for list of questions, template for answers that
we write ourselves.
Work done on Activity home page proposal.  More to follow.

ACTION: RR, prepare a Q&A pair ready for review on 5 May. 
Done.

ACTION: MD, prepare a first Q&A pair ready for review on 12 May

ACTION: Lloyd, prepare a Q&A pair for review on 19 May.

ACTION: Tex, prepare a Q&A pair for review on 26 May

ACTION: RI, set up Phil and Suzanne as Invited Experts
Waiting from prompt from Phil and Suzanne

ACTION: AC to create a list of possibilities for 'non-displayable'
characters

ACTION: Lloyd, send a list of deprecated tags in HTML by next meeting 
Moved to back burner

Action: Richard, look at ways of making the document print with a
smaller font, while avoiding any WAI issues.

All: send in pointers to existing guidelines 


Meetings
===========

No meeting the week of the 19th.



Q&A Review
=========================

We discussed Russ's contribution: 
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-i18n-geo/2003May/0003.html

Various useful comments.

[Note: since the meeting the material was posted at:
http://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-select-sorting.html with
all comments incorporated.  Thanks Russ!]

Agreed that we would have a 'see also' section whenever appropriate.

Agreement that we should compile a 'parking lot' of potential questions.

ACTION: RI, put up a skeleton parking lot for potential questions

ACTION: All, attempt to contribute to the parking lot by editing and
uploading RI's skeleton

We agreed that we could send our own questions to the list for
resolution.




Next meeting:
==========
Same time, same bridge, next week.



============
Richard Ishida
W3C

tel: +44 1753 480 292
http://www.w3.org/International/ 
http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/



