docno="lists-052-8311124"
received="Mon Feb 17 09:42:12 2003"
isoreceived="20030217144212"
sent="Mon, 17 Feb 2003 14:40:36 +0000 (GMT)"
isosent="20030217144036"
name="Jan Grant"
email="Jan.Grant@bristol.ac.uk"
subject="Telecon minutes 2003-02-14"
id="Pine.GSO.4.44.0302171415390.27130-100000@mail.ilrt.bris.ac.uk"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To: RDFCore Working Group<w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org>



(with apologies for slight delay)

Agenda:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Feb/0111.html

Transcript:
http://www.w3.org/2003/02/14-rdfcore-irc
orhttp://www.ilrt.org/discovery/chatlogs/rdfcore/2003-02-14.txt

Roll call:

Participants -

   Dave Beckett
   Mike Dean
   Jos deRoo
   Jan Grant (scribe)
   Pat Hayes
   Frank Manola
   Brian McBride (chair)
   Eric Miller
   Aaron Swartz

Regrets -
   Dan Brickley, Jeremy Carroll, Dan Connolly, Patrick Stickler,
   Graham Klyne

Review agenda:
   No AOB tabled.

Next telecon:
   28 Feb 2003, scribe Eric Miller
   [Note the bridge on the 21st will probably be used for
RDF-in-HTML discussions, see below]

Minutes of last telecon:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Feb/0082.html
With correction: Mike Dean also present
   APPROVED


Item 6: XML Schema 1.1 Requirements

http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jan/0163.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Feb/0078.html
http://www.w3.org/TR/2003/WD-xmlschema-11-req-20030121/

   ACTION 2003-02-14#1 (daveb) respond immediately to XML Schema 1.1
with a date for "we'll get back to you"

   ACTION 2003-02-14#2 (daveb) liase with jjc to work up a response on
the XML Schema 1.1 requirements


Item 7: RDF in HTML

http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Feb/0103.html

   ACTION 2003-02-14#3 (em) set up a discussion between RDFCore and
(x)HTML, with the objective to understand each other on the
subject of "RDF in HTML"


Item 8: WebOnt update

   Jos gave a pointer to a recent summary:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-webont-wg/2003Feb/0197.html

   Eric added
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webont-comments/2003Feb/0000.html

   Some discussion, no actions (see transcript)


Item 9: Actions from last week

   On action 2003-02-07#3: DaveB dropped "node labelled with URIref" from
syntax some time ago.

   Summary of the terminological confromance we're seeking:
   Brian: "The key [terminological] thing is to ensure that the subject
of a triple is a URIref, not a resource"

   ACTION 2003-02-14#4 (bwm) [sorry for vague record of action]
terminology: check "a resource" [in schema?]


Item 10: Format of references in documents

   Summary of how to do inter-document references:
   Eric: "Please make the links into the DATED versions of documents"

   ACTION 2003-02-14#5 (em) Follup to -core with a definitive summary
(recipie?) for the format of inter-document references

   On referring to externally-authored documents (low priority):
   Brian: "if you DO tidy these up, please conform to the pattern in
the Primer and Semantics"


Item 11: Responses to comments

   LC comment period ends next week, it'd be good to be on top of things
   by then.

   PLEASE check the brief weekly conspectus - especially for items
   requiring followup, needing clarification, etc.


Item 12: Schedule for processing comments

http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Feb/0094.html

   Most WG members could commit to the schedule (particularly the
   two-hour telecons), although PatH wasn't around on the 18th or
   thereabouts.

   ACTION 2003-02-14#6 (bwm) update schedule page to reflect the current
plan; seek feedback from the missing editors at today's telecon


The meeting closed with "Dirty Frank" Manola advising Eric on suitable
"persuaders" :-)


-- 
jan grant, ILRT, University of Bristol. http://www.ilrt.bris.ac.uk/
Tel +44(0)117 9287088 Fax +44 (0)117 9287112 http://ioctl.org/jan/
I shave with Occam's Razor.



