docno="lists-041-7720061"
received="Thu Mar 21 19:43:29 2002"
isoreceived="20020322004329"
sent="Thu, 21 Mar 2002 16:43:28 -0800 (PST)"
isosent="20020322004328"
name="Michael Datuin"
email="da2in@yahoo.com"
subject="Anyone have any MS web folder/Rosebud sample code?"
id="20020322004328.66148.qmail@web9908.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-dist-auth@w3.org

Does anyone have any experience/knowledge on using 
MS OLE DB Provider for Internet Publishing (aka,
Rosebud)?

I'm looking for C/C++ (not VB) sample code that shows 
how to open files from and save files to a MS web 
folder.  

I've looked high and low on msdn.microsoft.com for
"understandable and useful" information regarding web 
folders, but to no avail. The link to the sample 
Sample1 program on the MS website for OLE DB Provider 
for Internet Publishing doesn't even provide a link to
download the example!!!

I found references to the WebFolder objects and such,
but all I want is a C/C++ example that I can use to
add
to my Win32 application.  Are there any sample code
that shows how to open/save files with MS web 
folders?!?!?!  

I've seen many requests for help regarding sample code
to programmatically (using C/C++) access MS web
folders, and MS web folders in general, but never any
responses.  Frustrating!


__________________________________________________
Do You Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Movies - coverage of the 74th Academy Awards?
http://movies.yahoo.com/



