docno="lists-054-8435873"
received="Tue Nov 26 19:47:43 1996"
isoreceived="19961127004743"
sent="Tue, 26 Nov 1996 16:45:38 -0800"
isosent="19961127004538"
name="Jon Bosak"
email="bosak@atlantic-83.Eng.Sun.COM"
subject="Our current discussion schedule"
id="199611270045.QAA01897@boethius.eng.sun.com"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-sgml-wg@w3.org

For those of you who don't have access to the Web and can't see our
public W3C SGML activity page, and who therefore may be confused by
the recent discussion of CSS vs. DSSSL and may be thinking that we
are uncertain about what we are supposed to be doing now, I quote the
relevant section below.  (The corresponding section that I quoted in
an earlier message was from the original activity page posted last
June.  The excerpt below is from our current activity page, which is
dated October 4.)

Jon

========================================================================

<h3>Activities within the W3C</h3>

<p>The W3C has formed an SGML Working Group made up of SGML experts
and an SGML Editorial Review Board made up of SGML experts who also
have special standards and implementation experience to coordinate
with existing related standards efforts and to provide specifications
where needed to form a complete SGML Internet solution.

<p>Specific deliverables under development by the SGML WG/ERB include:

<ul>

<li>A specification for a simplified version of SGML suitable for
Internet applications.  Target delivery: draft by the SGML 96
Conference (November 1996).

<li>A specification of standard hypertext mechanisms for SGML
applications.  Target delivery: draft by the WWW6 Conference (April
1997).

<li>Public text and extensions needed to apply the DSSSL stylesheet
language (ISO/IEC 10179) to Web browsers.  Target delivery: draft by
the SGML 97 Conference (December 1997).

</ul>



