docno="lists-023-0324507"
received="Thu May 22 09:26:11 2003"
isoreceived="20030522132611"
sent="Thu, 22 May 2003 09:26:07 -0400"
isosent="20030522132607"
name="Glenn A. Adams"
email="glenn@xfsi.com"
subject="Minutes - 04/07/03 Telecon"
id="7249D02C4D2DFD4D80F2E040E8CAF37C03BA41@longxuyen.xfsi.com"
charset="utf-8"
expires="-1"


To:"W3C TT Public"<public-tt@w3.org>



Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 04/17/03

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF1]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]
  Markus Gylling (Daisy) [MG]

Regrets

  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]
  Mike Dolan (Invited Expert) [MD]

Absent

  Gerry Field (WGBH/NCAM, Invited Expert) [GF2]
  George Kerscher (Daisy) [GK]
  Markku Hakkinen (JSRPD) [MH]
  Brad Botkin (WGBH/NCAM) [BB]
  Patrick Schmitz (Ludicrum, Invited Expert) [PS]

************************************************************************
Agenda
************************************************************************

1. Membership Activity
2. Schedule for publishing TT-AF-1-0-REQ for public review.
3. Open Action Items
4. Open Issues
5. Next F2F Meeting Schedule

************************************************************************
1. Membership Activity
************************************************************************

[GA] Announces MSFT joining; BBC in process. WGBH also appears to be
in process of joining W3C, so can soon be W3C member participants.

************************************************************************
2. TT-AF-1-0-REQ Public Review Schedule
************************************************************************

[GA] Describes schedule agreed upon at previous F2F:

Apr 15 - Working Draft for Public Review
May 27 - Proposed Working Draft
Jun 31 - TTWG Approved Working Draft - Could go to Note at this point

[GA] Suggests changing date for publishing WD to Apr 30. Will plan
do so on May 1 after TT teleconf.

[*] No objection.

Action: [MG] To provide input on R111 by 04/24.

Action: [GA] To contact [EH] to prompt some results. [DS] to help. Also
ask Sean Hayes to assist. Need input by 04/24. [GA] will craft something
if nothing received.

[MG] Asks about Dublin Core usage. Notes there is a guidelines document
on how to use in other documents.

[MG] Thinks that using RelaxNG as master may be of help, to down-convert
to XML Schema. Notes that James Clark has written a tool called TRANG,
which converts from RelaxNG to XML Schema and DTDs. Will send link.

[GF1] Will help [GA] with use case scenarios.

[TM] Can help with announcing for review on (1) reflectors for other
groups, ([GA] would suggest starting with HTML CG); (2) to announce via
the newswire/letter ([TM] can handle).

Action: [TM] Will send [GA] proposal for URI to use in www.w3c.org/TR/.

Action: [GA] Will work with [TM] to come up with proposal for a namespace
URI.

Action: [*] To review REQ doc by 04/24 and comment.

************************************************************************
3. Action Items Review
************************************************************************

A-3: [BB1]/[GF1] finish analysis of "Tentative Core Style Property
List".

Complete. [GF1] needs to make a few corrections.

A-4: [DS] to propose scroll (motion) animation markup.

Continue.

A-5: [MH] to propose hilite animation markup.

Open. [GA] To contact [MH] to query status.

A-6: [GA] to create public accessible biblio page based on reference
list from [DS] and reference from member and public home pages.

Continue.

************************************************************************
4. Open Issue Review
************************************************************************

[GA] Insufficient time to review. Encourages online review and comment.

************************************************************************
5. Next Face to Face Meeting Schedule
************************************************************************

[GA] No objections to date change to Jun 11-12.

Action: [TM] to update meeting pages.

Action: [GA] to contact BBC to communicate date change.

************************************************************************
ADJOURNS at 1250h Eastern Time (US)
************************************************************************

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

A-4: [DS] to propose scroll (motion) animation markup.

A-5: [MH] to propose hilite animation markup.

A-6: [GA] to create public accessible biblio page based on reference
list from [DS] and reference from member and public home pages.

A-7: [MG] To provide input on R111 by 04/24.

A-8: [GA] To contact [EH] to prompt some results on Animation. [DS]
to help. Also ask Sean Hayes to assist. Need input by 04/24. [GA]
will craft something if nothing received.

A-9: [TM] Will send [GA] proposal for URI to use in www.w3c.org/TR/.

A-10: [GA] Will work with [TM] to come up with proposal for a namespace
URI.

A-11: [*] To review REQ doc by 04/24 and comment.

A-12: [TM] to update meeting pages to reflect F2F date change.

A-13: [GA] to contact BBC to communicate F2F date change.

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

I-2: How to handle highlighting?

I-3: Expand list of targetable transform formats (R109).

I-4: Need forumlation of content/authoring accessibility (R111).

I-5: Need to discuss embedded graphics (R214).

I-6: Do we want to support external graphics?

I-7: Need to discuss embedded fonts (R215).

I-8: Do we want to support external font resources?

I-9: Need refinement of semantic vocabulary for R216.

I-10: Need to agree on use of XLink for referencing (R292, R293).

I-11: Need to discuss additional style parameters (R305): baseline
related, border, margin, padding, etc.

I-12: Need to define interaction of time containers with content
containment structure.

I-13: [DS] Under R211, do we want to support an intermediate mode where
bidi and glyph sub still occur post authoring?

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



