docno="lists-015-7685756"
received="Wed Jul 10 12:09:41 2002"
isoreceived="20020710160941"
sent="Wed, 10 Jul 2002 12:09:09 0400"
isosent="20020710160909"
name="Don XML"
email="don_xml@hotmail.com"
subject="XML and SuperString Theory???"
id="F2097qFsWISA05L90DY0000c9e5@hotmail.com"
expires="1"

To:public-evangelist@w3.org



Catchy title, huh?  Well it got you to open this message.  I?ll get to the 
title later, but first
--- Yet another intro.

For those on the list who don?t know me (the majority I?m sure), I use the 
pen name of Don XML (why? because I have a Slavic last name that most people 
cannot pronounce or spell).  I?m an active participant on the svg-developers 
Yahoo Group, and a bunch of lesser known discussion groups that cover 
various XML derivative languages.  I worked with Kurt Cagle as the technical 
reviewer on the newest SVG Book - SVG Programming: The Graphical Web (which 
should be in stores any day now).  I?m an independent consultant based out 
of New Jersey, USA, who specializes in architecting Microsoft .Net 
applications for major corporations (mostly pharms).  I really believe that 
the best place to start using XML Web Services is in intra-Corporation 
applications.  Divisions within corporations don?t communicate between each 
other very well, typically use different platforms, and have no financial 
reasons to work well with the other divisions.

Because I work with Microsoft technologies, and pay attention to the W3C 
activities, I usually try to work as a communications conduit for both 
groups.  The folks at Microsoft aren?t any different from the folks of any 
other software company.  The best way to influence a software company is 
thru their developers.  They are were the rubber meets the road, and if you 
can convince them of the benefits of some new technology/specification, 
you?ve got a good chance of getting it implemented in their software.

And now, onto the title subject: XML and SuperString Theory.  I?m sure you 
are saying to your self ?What does XML have to do with Theoretical 
Physics??.  Well, they don?t currently have much in common, but they happen 
to both be topics I try to stay current with.  One day, as my mind was 
wandering like it does sometimes, both subjects got stuck in my head at the 
same time.  And it occurred to me that the multidimensional aspects of 
SuperString theory (where they postulated that there are 10 dimensions) 
would be much easier to depict and model if they used XML.  Exactly how the 
XML should look, well that is where I get stuck.  So if any of you mess 
around with Theoretical Physics, and wish to lend some brain matter, let me 
know.  Now wouldn?t that be cool if XML was used to help solve the ?Theory 
of Everything?.

Don XML

Always listen to experts. They'll tell you what can't be done, and why. Then 
do it.


_________________________________________________________________
MSN Photos is the easiest way to share and print your photos: 
http://photos.msn.com/support/worldwide.aspx



