docno="lists-022-12356943"
received="Tue Nov 25 08:24:08 2003"
isoreceived="20031125132408"
sent="Tue, 25 Nov 2003 08:23:58 -0500"
isosent="20031125132358"
name="Ian B. Jacobs"
email="ij@w3.org"
subject="[Minutes] 24 Nov 2003 TAG teleconf (Action item review)"
id="1069766637.19987.20.camel@seabright"
expires="-1"

To:www-tag@w3.org


Hello,

Minutes of the (short) 24 Nov 2003 TAG teleconf are
available as HTML [1] and as text below.

 - Ian

[1] http://www.w3.org/2003/11/24-tag-summary.html
========================================================

                Minutes of 24 November 2003 TAG teleconference

1. Administrative (15min)

    1. Roll call: TB, TBL, IJ, SW, CL, NW. Regrets: PC, DO, DC. Missing:
       RF.
    2. The TAG did not accept the minutes of the [8]15-17 Nov ftf
       meeting. TB and CL agreed to review them for next week.
    3. Accepted this [9]agenda.
    4. Next meeting: 1 Dec 2003 teleconf. At risk: NW.
    5. (Not discussed) Video meeting in Feb 2003:
         1. Action SW/PC 2003/11/10: Explore possibility of TAG videolink
            TAG distributed meeting in February.
    6. (Not discussed) Tech Plenary
         1. Action SW 2003/11/15: Take to tech plenary committee the
            TAG's proposal.
    7. Upcoming meetings:
         1. 1 Dec teleconf
         2. 4 Dec teleconf, focus on Arch Doc. 8am PT for one hour.
         3. 8 Dec. Regrets: TBL, CL
    8. Negotiations with WGs for last call:
         1. SW/I18N done
         2. Schema/PC done
         3. SVG/CL done
         4. Todo: Voice/SW, HTML/IJ, XML Core/NW, WSDL/DO

      [8] http://www.w3.org/2003/11/15-tag-summary.html
      [9] http://www.w3.org/2003/11/24-tag.html

2. Technical (75min)

   The meeting was short.

  2.1 Review of Architecture Document writing assignments

   The TAG reviewed recent action items.

   Reference document: [10]27 Oct 2003 WD of the Arch Doc

     [10] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/2003/webarch-20031027/

   Ian

         1. Action IJ 2003/10/08: Starting from DO's diagram, create a
            diagram where the relationships and terms are linked back to
            the context where defined. Ensure that the relationships are
            in fact used in the narrative; any gaps identified? With DO,
            work on term relationship diagram.
         2. Action IJ 2003/11/15: Add a column to the TAG issues list
            about the version of the document in which we are expecting
            to address the issue.
         3. Action IJ 2003/11/15: Provide wording to replace text in
            1.1.2 about relation between arch doc and findings (w.r.t.
            good practice notes).
         4. Action IJ 2003/11/15: Revise SVG story in discussion with
            TBL.
         5. Action IJ 2003/11/15: Incorporate TBL and DC text into 3.4.
         6. Action IJ 2003/11/15: Fix ref to 30 at end of section 4.2
         7. Action IJ 2003/11/15: Fix para after 1./2. bullets in 4.3 to
            make clear that language must prepare in advance (i.e.,
            syntax) for this type of override.
         8. Action IJ 2003/11/15: Write caveat about integration formats
            like FO
         9. Action IJ 2003/11/15: Close issue 6 with TB proposed text.
            Inform reviewer.
        10. Action IJ 2003/11/15: In 4.6.4, amend story to talk about the
            choice of extensibility model and namespace policy how that
            helps them meet their desired goals (easy changes, less
            cost). Tie namespace change more strongly to extensibility
            model with a cross reference.
        11. Action IJ 2003/11/15: In section 4.6.6, add refs to infoset
            and PSVI.
        12. Action IJ 2003/11/15: Ensure that pointed to from issues
            list.
        13. Action IJ 2003/11/15: Add new issue regarding derived
            resources.
        14. Action IJ 2003/11/15: Add new issue ultimateQuestion-42.

   Chris

         1. Completed action CL 2003/07/21: Discuss and propose improved
            wording of language regarding SVG spec in bulleted list in
            2.5.1. ([11]Done)
         2. Completed action CL 2003/11/15: Propose a sentence for 4.4
            about delivery context. ([12]Done)
         3. Action CL 2003/11/15: Write text to reviewer about the
            resolution of errorHandling-20.

     [11] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2003Nov/0052.html
     [12] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2003Nov/0058.html

   Norm

         1. Completed action NW 2003/10/08: Revise QName finding. See
            [13]draft finding from NW.
         2. Completed action NW 2003/11/15: Provide language on
            cost/benefit trade-off of extensibility. (See [14]15-17 Nov
            ftf meeting minutes)
         3. Completed action NW/IJ 2003/11/15: Rewrite 4.6.2. Revise
            first GPN per TB text. Second one ok. Take language from
            finding to give more context. (See [15]15-17 Nov ftf meeting
            minutes)

     [13] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/qnameids-2003-11-03
     [14] http://www.w3.org/2003/11/15-tag-summary.html
     [15] http://www.w3.org/2003/11/15-tag-summary.html

   TB

         1. Completed action TB: Rewrite paragraph on ambiguity in
            section 2.2. Done, but rejected. (See [16]15-17 Nov ftf
            meeting minutes)

     [16] http://www.w3.org/2003/11/15-tag-summary.html

   Roy

         1. Action RF 2003/10/08: Explain "identifies" in RFC 2396.

   DO

         1. Action DO 2003/11/15: Propose some extra text for 3.3.2
            (second paragraph) that hypertext agents often follow an
            IGNORE rule and this often results in compatible behavior.
         2. Action DO 2003/11/15: Point WSDL WG to resolution of issue 6.
         3. Action DO 2003/11/15: Propose some extra text for section 4.5
            that hypertext agents often follow an IGNORE rule and this
            often results in incompatible behavior. Ignore applied to
            fragid interpretation.

   TBL

         1. Action TBL/DO/IJ 2003/11/15: Produce new text for a small
            subsection 1.2.4 (or perhaps for 1.2.1).
            TBL: Done in [17]this document after discussion with DO.
            Please include in new draft for review.
         2. Action TBL 2003/07/14: Suggest changes to section about
            extensibility related to "when to tunnel".
            TBL: Please move this one to a longer-term action list (e.g.,
            associated with issue 41).

     [17] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/2003/webarch-20031111/tim

   DC

         1. Action DC 2003/07/21: Propose language for section 2.8.5
            showing examples of freenet and other systems. Progress; see
            [18]URISchemes/freenet
         2. Action DC 2003/11/15: Elaborate on value of orthogonality of
            specs in section 1.2.1 including example HTTP/HTML
         3. Action DC 2003/11/15: Write up some replacement text for text
            at beginning of 3.3.1.
         4. Action DC 2003/11/15: Follow up on KeepPOSTRecords with Janet
            Daly on how to raise awareness of this point (which is in
            CUAP).

     [18] http://esw.w3.org/topic/UriSchemes_2ffreenet

   SW

         1. Action SW 2003/11/15: Verify that "agent" is used
            consistently in the document and makes sense as both people
            and software.
         2. Completed action SW 2003/11/15: Provide photo of
            extensibility/versioning whiteboard notes for the meeting
            record ([19]Done)

     [19] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2003Nov/0074.html

     _________________________________________________________________

   The TAG does not expect to cover these issues

  2.2 Review of 3023-related actions

    1. Action CL 2003/10/27: Draft XML mime type thingy with Murata-san

  2.3 Findings

   See also [20]TAG findings home page.
     * [21]whenToUseGet-7: Finding: [22]URIs, Addressability, and the use
       of HTTP GET and POST
     * [23]contentPresentation-26: Draft finding: [24]Separation of
       semantic and presentational markup, to the extent possible, is
       architecturally sound
     * [25]contentTypeOverride-24: 9 July 2003 draft of [26]Client
       handling of MIME headers
         1. Completed action RF 2003/09/15: Proposed substitute text in
            light of [27]previous comments on charset param. ([28]Done)
         2. [29]Comments from Philipp Hoschka about usability issues when
            user involved in error correction. Is there a new Voice spec
            out we can point to for example behavior?
         3. [30]Comments from Chris Lilley
         4. Lots of [31]comments from Martin Duerst
     * [32]metadataInURI-31

     [20] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/findings/
     [21] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#whenToUseGet-7
     [22] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/whenToUseGet-20030922
     [23] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/open-summary.html#contentPresentation-26
     [24] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/contentPresentation-26-20030630.html
     [25] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/open-summary.html#contentTypeOverride-24
     [26] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/mime-respect.html
     [27] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2003Jul/0051.html
     [28] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2003Sep/0043.html
     [29] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2003Jul/0076.html
     [30] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2003Jul/0113.html
     [31] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2003Sep/0108.html
     [32] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/open-summary.html#metadataInURI-31

    2.3.1 Expected new findings

     * [33]siteData-36
     * [34]abstractComponentRefs-37
       Completed action IJ 2003/11/03: Publish DO's latest draft in
       finding format ([35]Done)

     [33] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#siteData-36
     [34] http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/issues.html#abstractComponentRefs-37
     [35] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2003Nov/0008.html

     _________________________________________________________________


    Ian Jacobs for Stuart Williams and TimBL
    Last modified: $Date: 2003/11/25 13:18:48 $

-- 
Ian Jacobs (ij@w3.org)   http://www.w3.org/People/Jacobs
Tel:                     +1 718 260-9447




