docno="lists-023-1470913"
received="Tue Mar  9 08:55:29 2004"
isoreceived="20040309135529"
sent="Tue, 9 Mar 2004 14:54:45 +0100"
isosent="20040309135445"
name="Thierry MICHEL"
email="tmichel@w3.org"
subject="Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 01/29/04"
id="000b01c405de$14a78ce0$1302010a@wistiti"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:<public-tt@w3.org>




Minutes of TT WG Teleconference on 01/29/04

Attendees

  Glenn Adams (XFSI, Chair, Scribe) [GA]
  Mike Dolan (invited expert) [MD]
  Geoff Freed (WGBH/NCAM, scribe) [GF]
  Erik Hodge (RealNetworks) [EH]
  David Kirby (BBC) [DK]
  Thierry Michel (W3C) [TM]
  Dave Singer (Apple) [DS]
  Sean Hayes, Microsoft (SH)

************************************************************************
Draft Agenda
************************************************************************

1. Follow-Up on IRI/URI Discussion
   
   [1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Jan/0030.html
   [2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-tt/2004Jan/0031.html

2. Techncial Specification Status

3. F2F Agenda Planning

4. Open Action Review

************************************************************************
1. Follow-Up on IRI/URI Discussion
************************************************************************

************************************************************************
2. Technical Specification Status
************************************************************************

************************************************************************
3. F2F Agenda Planning
************************************************************************

   * Requirements Document and Reviewing Feedback in order Finalize

     Action: [GA] request feedback from public-tt reflector on
requirements
     for upcoming meeting.

     * review input and thread from Bert Bos' email to public reflector

   * Profile Discussion

     * [DK] What do we mean by profile?
     * [EH] What does CC Profile look like?
     * What does Audio Description Profile look like?
     * What does Distribution Specific Profiles look like?
     * What does a minimum Distribution Profile look like?
     * [MD] should minimize profiles
     * [SH] a usage style (an authorial intent)

     Action: [GA] request input from Rhys Lewis (DIWG) on relevant
     DIWG documents that address document profiles.

     * [DS] point of a profile is to ensure interoperation of author
       and recipient. 
     * [SH] An elective thing; a sub-schema that says this is what I'm
       using. It is a claim from author that it is using only some
       subset.

   Action: [GA]/[GF] to prepare reading list, printing as necessary

   * SYMM Activities

   * Plan March F2F Meeting Agenda

   Action: [SH] Check on firewall support for F2F.

   [GF] Any other equipment beside projector/phone. Will arrange
   caption tour. Should go into 114 Western Ave.

   Action: [GA] Publish draft agenda with assigned slot times for
   topics.

************************************************************************
4. Open Action Review
************************************************************************

Action: [SH] Will investigate use of media queries in this context and
report back.

[SH] thinks this is closed, but will review minutes.

Action: [DS with help of Paul Nelson and Peter Lofting] Write RFC to
register appropriate opentype/truetype font types as MIME media types,
suggest model of "application/font-<font-type-name>", e.g.,
"application/font-truetype".

[DS] weak green light from IETF to do this; will draft I-D.

Action: [GA] Make proposal regarding use of Xlink vocabulary or
"src" attribute.

Remains opens.

Action: [GF] Investigate whether to use IRIs instead of URIs?
Note: XPointer and Namespaces in 1.1 use IRIs?

Remains open pending input from Martin Duerst.

Action: [SH] Investigate use of "role" vs "class" attribute.

[SH] recommends "class".  [SH] will review minutes. If "role"
means something different, then may retain that separately.
Will propose resolution for next week's F2F.

Action: [GA] Investigate selection of non-TT vocabulary for
application of style/timing semantics.

Proposed Resolution: Note this as a potential feature in
TT-AF-1-0, to be removed if no use-case scenario is identified.

Action: [GF] Investigate mechanism for cascading
semantics and whether to support cascading on either or both
logical and presentation flowed vocabularies.

Remains open. Remove [GA] from action.

Action: [GA] to package above comments for review by TTWG, then
send to commenters once accepted.

Done previously and reported.

Action: [GA] Draft new requirement on "Integrability"
in general terms that should not impact testing or implementation
requirements.

Remains open.

Action: [GA] incorporate agreed changes into TT-AF-1-0-REQ in
preparation for publishing final W3C Note.

Remains open.

Action: [SH] will review and propose subset of aural parameters
(see R305).

Has reviewed, awaiting documenting proposal.

Action: [TM] get [MD2] on call next wk

Contacted but no response. [GA] to follow-up with second request.

Action: [GA] talk about profiles; add to meeting agenda in Boston

Done.

Action: [All] look over [BB]'s comments for next meeting.

Leave open.

Action: [EH] & [all not coming to f2f]: send to list topics for phone
conversation and available times

Done. [GA] to proposed draft time slots. [EH] can join anytime on Wed;
on Thu is open for noon to 3pm eastern.

************************************************************************
5. Next Meetings
************************************************************************

02/04/04 - F2F - WGBH, Cambridge
02/05/04 - F2F - WGBH, Cambridge
02/06/04 - F2F - WGBH, Cambridge

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
START SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

*** RESOLUTIONS ***

Proposed Resolution: Add note to spec that selection of non-TT vocab
elements is a potential feature in TT-AF-1-0, to be removed if no
use-case scenario is identified.

*** OPEN ACTION ITEMS ***

Action: [SH] Will investigate use of media queries in this context and
report back.

Action: [DS with help of Paul Nelson and Peter Lofting] Write RFC to
register appropriate opentype/truetype font types as MIME media types,
suggest model of "application/font-<font-type-name>", e.g.,
"application/font-truetype".

Action: [GA] Make proposal regarding use of Xlink vocabulary or
"src" attribute.

Action: [GF] Investigate whether to use IRIs instead of URIs?
Note: XPointer and Namespaces in 1.1 use IRIs?

Action: [SH] Investigate use of "role" vs "class" attribute.

Action: [GF] Investigate mechanism for cascading
semantics and whether to support cascading on either or both
logical and presentation flowed vocabularies.

Action: [GA] Draft new requirement on "Integrability"
in general terms that should not impact testing or implementation
requirements.

Action: [GA] incorporate agreed changes into TT-AF-1-0-REQ in
preparation for publishing final W3C Note.

Action: [SH] will review and propose subset of aural parameters
(see R305).

Action: [All] look over [BB]'s comments for next meeting.

*** OPEN ISSUES ***

Issue: Whether to use XLink vocabulary, e.g., as used consistently by
SVG, or use "src" attribute as apparently will be done in XHTML2?

Issue: Whether to use IRIs instead of URIs? Note: XPointer and
Namespaces in 1.1 use IRIs?

Issue: Should we use "class" instead of "role"?

Issue: Probably want to permit in logical content mode the selection of
content based on generic XML features of non-TT namespace descriptive
markup, e.g., for applying style and timing semantics, in which case an
appropriate TT container element shall be implied based on nearest
ancestor TT namespace element.

Issue: Need to think about cascading semantics; how to express, how to
apply, etc. Possibly use CSS semantics here as well.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
END SUMMARY
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Thierry MICHEL
W3C/ERCIM



