docno="lists-067-2877083"
received="Thu Apr 27 19:34:21 2000"
isoreceived="20000427233421"
sent="Fri, 28 Apr 2000 09:33:42 +1000 (EST)"
isosent="20000427233342"
name="Jason White"
email="jasonw@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
subject="Organisation of deliverables"
id="Pine.SOL.4.10.10004280915540.10667-100000@ariel.ucs.unimelb.edu.au"
charset="US-ASCII"
expires="-1"

To: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


Again writing as an individual working group member, I would like to
submit a proposal for the stratification and organisation of the WCAG 2.0
document and associated deliverables. This is an attempt to accommodate
the various opinions which were expressed today in the teleconference:

1. Guidelines (WCAG 2.0, a W3C Recommendation), comprising:

a. General guidelines: principles of accessible design applicable to web
content.

b. Checkpoints, which express the strategies by which the general
requirements may be achieved. So far as possible, these will be
independent of specific markup languages, data formats and protocols,
though format or protocol-specific illustrations can be provided to
clarify meaning. Only the checkpoints themselves would be normative; the
examples and explanatory notes would be informative only.


C. A glossary, references to relevant specifications and useful resources.

An introduction, with an overview of the substantive guidelines, would be
provided, using less technical language where possible and offering links
to associated resources (other W3C/WAI guidelines, education and outreach
materials, etc.).


2. Techniques document modules. These would be specific to particular
protocols and data formats (HTML, CSS, SVG, Smil, DOM, etc.). The document
would comprise, apart from necessary introductory material:

A. Under each checkpoint from the WCAG, succinctly expressed techniques
whereby the checkpoint can be applied using the relevant formats and/or
protocols addressed by the module.

B. Examples of each technique (code fragments etc.), with supporting
explanatory material where needed.

3. Checklists, as in WCAG 1.0; possibly also a reference explaining what
user populations are known to be addressed by which checkpoints (an
"impact matrix", in effect).

The Technique modules would be published as (non-normative) W3C notes, and
subject to revision as web-related technologies change.



