docno="lists-017-7291602"
received="Wed Jan 14 11:27:40 2004"
isoreceived="20040114162740"
sent="Wed, 14 Jan 2004 17:27:03 +0100"
isosent="20040114162703"
name="Rigo Wenning"
email="rigo@w3.org"
subject="[Minutes] 14 January Call"
id="20040114162703.GB3300@accueil.w3.org"
charset="usascii"
inreplyto="20040114140059.GA2075&#64;accueil.w3.org"
expires="1"

To: public-p3p-spec<public-p3p-spec@w3.org>



On Wed, Jan 14, 2004 at 03:00:59PM +0100, Rigo Wenning wrote:
> 1/ Further planning for a F2F meeting

Some conflicts appeared. So we will continue discussion on the member
mailing-list.

ACTION Rigo: Start thread on the member-mailing-list
> 
> 2/ Remaining issues

Issue was to collect all the remaining undone stuff. Please verify all
the bugs in bugzilla. There is a link to bugzilla from the P3P 1.1
Homepage: http://www.w3.org/P3P/1.1/

Giles already identified some issues around dataschema. 

ACTION Giles: Write proposal for next steps to the mailing-list
> 
> 3/ primary purposes

As Rigo is fully occupied with edits, he can't participate. Dave and
Jeff proposed to bring up a draft that we could discuss also with the
folks from the POWG.

Next Meeting will be on 28 Jan 2004 (same time, same place)

Best, 

Rigo



