docno="lists-031-7952595"
received="Mon Dec  2 08:56:24 2002"
isoreceived="20021202135624"
sent="Mon, 2 Dec 2002 05:55:53 -0800 (PST)"
isosent="20021202135553"
name="Andrew Girow"
email="andrewgirow@yahoo.com"
subject="SVG Tiny test suite"
id="20021202135553.76762.qmail@web40605.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:chris@w3.org
Cc:svg-testsuite-comments@w3.org


Dear Chris,

I have several questions and comments about the Test
Suite for SVG Tiny.

About font rendering  samples text-ws-01-t.svg and
text-ws-02-t.svg. These samples has Windows specific
font names. My question what the SVG Tiny Viewer
should display in this case if its running on the
device?  In earlier specifications was mentioned that
an SVG file SHOULD define most of the information
needed to display it. I.e. it included all the
relevant font information. In other words the SVG file
should be self descriptive. On different devices the
monotype font face could be mapped to different fonts.
In this case the outline of the text will be
different. 

On the Test Suite Page for Tiny there is a following
test file.
http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/Test/20021112/htmlframe/tiny-masking-path-03-t.html
 at the same time in the Mobile Profile is written
that ? SVG Tiny content cannot have nested child 'svg'
elements?.

The same is applied to the struct-image samples
because in the Mobile Profile is written that 
?SVGB and SVGT require support of the JPEG and PNG
formats on the image element. SVGB also requires
support of SVG format on the image element.?
Regards
Andrew Girow
www.tinyline.com


__________________________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Mail Plus - Powerful. Affordable. Sign up now.
http://mailplus.yahoo.com



