docno="lists-104-11705538"
received="Wed Oct 23 12:20:05 2002"
isoreceived="20021023162005"
sent="Wed, 23 Oct 2002 09:12:39 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20021023161239"
name="Gbade Owode"
email="gbadeowode@yahoo.com"
subject="SOLID MINERAL"
id="20021023161239.4455.qmail@web40602.mail.yahoo.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:gbadeowode@yahoo.com


Dear Sir,

I write to solicit your support to enable me execute a
very lucrative and high profiting business
transaction. I am very confident that with trust and
understanding, we would be able to execute this
business to our mutual benefit and believe that you
will not let me down the trust and confidence I am
willing to repose in you.

I worked with an international solid mineral company 
in Nigeria as a purchasing manager. We were major
suppliers of a brand solid mineral to some foreign
firms but due to the sudden death of my boss. 
The company was forced to close down; hence all local
staffs were laid off.

Due to my working relationship with this client, some
of them are still in contact with me, asking me to be
their main supplier of the same mineral, which can
only be source in Cotonou, Benin Republic, the west 
coast of Africa. The name of the solid mineral in
demand is called CUPA. I have been able to source for
it from a particular family mining farm in 
Cotonuo. And they have over 500,000pcs of the CUPA and
each is going for US$10.00 per pcs.

The foreign firm is ready to buy it for US$40.00 per
pcs and this supply will be for a quarterly basis.

My major problem now is how to finance this business,
which is so lucrative that the profit margin is
enormous and fat.If you indicate your interest, I will
immediately introduce you as the new supplier of the
solid mineral to the company that needs this 
product. As the broker, I will be entitle to
30%commission of the total net profit, which is
subject to negotiation.

While I await your prompt response, I look forward to
doing this 
business with you.

Yours sincerely,

IDRIS USMAN.

__________________________________________________
Do you Yahoo!?
Y! Web Hosting - Let the expert host your web site
http://webhosting.yahoo.com/



