docno="lists-080-14731442"
received="Tue Feb 10 17:45:40 2004"
isoreceived="20040210224540"
sent="Wed, 11 Feb 2004 09:33:51 +1100"
isosent="20040210223351"
name="Kieran_M_O'Brien@national.com.au"
email="Kieran_M_O'Brien@national.com.au"
subject="Discriminatory or not?"
id="OFC49B4473.FE6C1FD4-ONCA256E36.007AC79C-CA256E36.007CED9A@au.thenational.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org




Hi all,

We have purchased a third party application which our company is using as a
means to train staff. It is essentially a step-by-step tutor showing you
how to accomplish set tasks. After doing some testing, we found out that it
is totally inacessible, but we only got a peak just now and they are about
to roll it out. Apparently, they can't change the timeframe.

So anyway, their solution was that in the general communications going out
to end users, they would say (NOT IN THESE WORDS) 'for those who are unable
to undertake the training for certain reasons, should contact the training
team for one-on-one help.'

My question is, can this be seen as being discriminatory? Chaals you might
be the best person to know about Australian law in this area, are we in any
danger here? especially seeing we are a big company with lots of
employees!!!

Does anyone else have any other possible suggestions in this case? Ones
that may not be as dangerous;)

Regards,
Kieran.

__________________________________________________________________________
The information contained in this email communication may be confidential.
You should only disclose, re-transmit, copy, distribute, act in reliance on
or commercialise the information if you are authorised to do so.  Any views
expressed in this email communication are those of the individual sender,
except where the sender specifically states them to be the views of a
member of the National Australia Bank Group of companies.  Any advice
contained in this e-mail has been prepared without taking into account your
objectives, financial situation or needs. Before acting on any advice in
this e-mail, National Australia Bank Limited recommends that you consider
whether it is appropriate for your circumstances. If this e-mail contains
reference to any financial products, the National recommends you consider
the Product Disclosure Statement (PDS) or other disclosure document  before
making any decisions regarding any products.  The National Australia Bank
Group of companies does not represent, warrant or guarantee that the
integrity of this communication has been maintained nor that the
communication is free of errors, virus or interference.



