docno="lists-021-16539847"
received="Thu Mar 18 04:57:51 2004"
isoreceived="20040318095751"
sent="Thu, 18 Mar 2004 01:57:47 -0800"
isosent="20040318095747"
name="Deborah L. McGuinness"
email="dlm@ksl.Stanford.EDU"
subject="Re: ALL: agenda 18 March telecon"
id="4059729B.5070306@ksl.stanford.edu"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
inreplyto="405876DC.8080604&#64;cs.vu.nl"
expires="-1"


To: Guus Schreiber<schreiber@cs.vu.nl>
Cc: SWBPD list<public-swbp-wg@w3.org>




Guus Schreiber wrote:

>
> AGENDA  Teleconference
> W3C Semantic Web Best Practices & Deployment Working Group
> 18 March 2004,
> 1000 (East US), 0700 (West US). 1500 (UTC/London) midnight (Tokyo)
> Duration: 60-90 min
>
> Bridge: +1.617.761.6200 passcode 7927#
> IRC Chat: irc:irc.w3.org (port 6665), #swbp
>
> Chair: Guus Schreiber
> Scribe: Jeremy Carroll
>
>
> 1. ADMINISTRIVIA (10 min)
>
> Role call
> Regrets: Marco Nanni,
>
> PROPOSED to accept the minutes of the Cannes kickoff ftf:
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004JanMar/0067.html 

this says it includes a list of participants but i do not see that i was 
attending (via telecon).

> Agenda amendments
>
> Proposed date for next telecon.
> 1 April 1500 UTC 

Due to inability to attend Thursdays at 7am pacific time, proposed 
alternating telecons so that no one time zone is consistently penalized.

also, official regrets in advance for any thursday 7am pacific time zone 
thursday morning meetings for the upcoming months through at least june.

> 2. ACTION ITEM REVIEW (5min)
>
> ACTION: danbri send msg to public-esw-thes letting them know BDP WG is
> considering work in thes2rdf area
>
> ACTION DanB: investigate publication of Turtle as SWIG note
>
> ACTION ChrisW present his time ontology in the next telecon
>
> ACTION GuusS asking JimH whether he's wanting to coordinate "Worldview
> Note" TF
> DONE
>
> ACTION JJC: send to the WG list an example of using www-archive (and 
> perhaps
> some relevant advice)
> DONE
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004JanMar/0034.html
>
> ACTION RalphS: add attachment policies to list archive cover page
> W3C Guidelines for Email Attachment Formats
> http://www.w3.org/2002/03/email_attachment_formats.html
>
>
> ACTION Guus: forward some tips for scribes (from Dan to webont)
> DONE: Ralph added link to WG home page
>
> ACTION DanBri: ask SemWeb CG about constraints and advice re WD, Note, 
> etc.
>
> ACTION: Bernard to draft a message to be sent from this WG to ISO 
> Topic Maps
> community for discussion at an upcoming teleconference [6]
> DONE
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004JanMar/0052.html
>
>
> 3  TASK FORCES

General question - is task force work expected to be done interactively 
through email/wikis etc with essentially readouts of the work at the 
group telecon?  and are telecons outside of the main group telecon 
anticipated regularly?
 I think working through wikis could be useful although i do not know if 
w3c provides any infrastructure for that.
if the main work of this group is through task forces and those are 
coordinated by the task force leaders with readouts at the telecons, 
that may help with the time zone problems.

> 3.1 Task force list (10 min)
>
> Proposal to create and maintain a WG task-force list, in a similar
> spirit as a regylar issue list. To discuss:
> - format task-foce description
> - list maintenance / editor
> - process similar to issue process: proposed, "opned" (i.e. strated),
>   proposal to close (e.g. WG noet), close/postponed
>
>
> 3.2 Discussion on selected task forces (35 min)
>
> Demos and applications (ongoing?) [pragmatic examples]
> (no coordinator yet)
>
> World-view note - explain diff owl, rdf, xml etc.
> (JimH)
>
> Porting thesaurii to the Web    
> (DanBri)    
>     
> Ontology Patterns and Engineering
> (ChrisW, DebM)
> Discussion points suggested by Chris:
> - name/acronym
> - how to work (ie html, wiki; format for patterns; format for design
> issues)
>
> WordNet ontology conversion support [content]    
> (AldoG     WNET)
>            
> Time Ontology
> ACTION ChirsW
>
> Link to TopicMaps
> (BernardV)
> See: 
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swbp-wg/2004JanMar/0052.html
>
> Tools Page    
> Education
> (OscarC)       
>
>
> 3.3 RDF-XHTML task force (20 min)
>
> [STARTS AT 1600 UTC]
> Discussion, if possible with people joining from XHTML WG.
>
>
> 4  AOB (5 min)
>

-- 
 Deborah L. McGuinness 
 Associate Director Knowledge Systems Laboratory 
 Gates Computer Science Building, 2A Room 241 
 Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-9020 
 email: dlm@ksl.stanford.edu
 URL: http://ksl.stanford.edu/people/dlm
 (voice) 650 723 9770    (stanford fax) 650 725 5850   (computer fax)  801 705 0941



