docno="lists-053-16477525"
received="Mon Jan 26 04:59:22 2004"
isoreceived="20040126095922"
sent="Mon, 26 Jan 2004 09:49:50 +0000"
isosent="20040126094950"
name="Brian McBride"
email="bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
subject="Re: 2004-01-16 minutes delayed"
id="4014E2BE.8070004@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="20040121133252.GF26121&#64;w3.org"
expires="-1"


To: Dan Brickley<danbri@w3.org>
Cc:w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org


Hi Danbri,

I guess you were disappointed not to get to them in the evening as you 
hoped.

Do you intend to complete this and if so when.

Brian


Dan Brickley wrote:
> Hi. I'm delayed in getting last friday's minutes done. I hope 
> to get to them by tonight. Stopgap, the raw transcript is
> http://www.w3.org/2004/01/16-rdfcore-irc where the following things were 
> resolved, including that our next meeting is 30th January (ie. next 
> week not this friday).
> 
> 
> 
> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Dec/0015.html
> RESOLVED: these are true record of 12 dec meeting
> (actions therein are all done)
> 
> 
> 9: Proposed minor Changes to Primer Document
> bwm: so proposal is, per the agenda w/ the ammendement in 0067.html
> above (dropping change 3)
> RESOLVED: per the agenda w/ the ammendement in 0067.html above (dropping
> change 3)
> 
> RESOLVED: to propose to the Director that we make the changes to the
> Semantics doc outlined in today's agenda.
> 
> RESOLVED: next meeting on 30th
> 
> 



