docno="lists-015-7575178"
received="Wed Jul 10 00:07:54 2002"
isoreceived="20020710040754"
sent="Wed, 10 Jul 2002 16:08:29 +1200"
isosent="20020710040829"
name="Keran McKenzie"
email="keran@mediadesign.school.nz"
subject="Re: repository  was re:intro"
id="00b901c227c7$73493d30$4500000a@MDS"
charset="iso-88591"
inreplyto="35DE88E6D5EDAA43B013CDF17E175B4407A0AA&#64;SLCMSX01.mentergy.com"
expires="1"


To:<public-evangelist@w3.org>


> If someone could set up a wiki that would be really cool. (Unfortunately I
> don't know how to do it).

Yeah ... I'd be happy to set one up and Host it .. alas I'm on Linux and not
Windows
However I'm more than happy to devote an entire Forum area to this at
www.studiowhiz.com if people felt that could be a good way of extending this
knowledge to the general masses. (this site by the way is not fully
compliant yet .. we are working towards it though).

I think your all on the right track. Education is important

Education of the current designers and education of the clients .... As I
mentioned earlier I'm trying to break into the circles in NZ to talk on
these topics. I teach tomorrows designers, and am wanting to expand that.

Studiowhiz currently is a web resource site, and this is exactly the sort of
thing i've been wanting to expand it too. I don't see HTML, or Flash as
standalone solutions...I see them as part of a solution. I want the site to
have options and solutions for people.  A while back on
http://pnut.studiowhiz.com (my blog) I said I was collection CSS and XHTML
tutorials.  The thing I ran into ... and still do as I collect resources ...
is often it's very personal opinion focused.

Prime example, the whole c|Net vs Wasp browser debate, suddenly got VERY
personal and touchy, and I think that if we continue on that track the
average Joe Blog web designer is going to get very confused. I'm all for
building a HEAP of solid resources, BUT on the condition we ditch hearsy and
opinions and base it on BLACK & WHITE.

There is a dire need for step by step tutorials, solid articles and more
support of WASP's work. I have users asking me all the time, How do I set up
a basic CSS? How do I do layout without tables that will work in ALL
browsers?  Am I'm attempting to write tutorials that have the answers. Now I
KNOW a number of you have been there and done that ... I shouldn't need to
re-invent the wheel. But finding these and making sense of them ... you
should see the stakes of printed websites on my desk :)

Enough of my rant ... I think this is an Awesome mailing list .... and I
look forward to seeing it grow...

K.

Keran McKenzie

PS: anyone know how to change the email this is sending too .. I subscribed
under the wrong email address





-- 
http://www.mediadesign.school.nz/

CAUTION: This communication is confidential and may be legally privileged.
If you have received it in error you must not use, disclose, copy or retain
it. Please immediately notify us by return email and then delete the email.

This message has been scanned for viruses and dangerous content by
MailScanner with McAfee UVScan, and is believed to be clean.



