docno="lists-052-14779624"
received="Fri Jul 18 04:11:07 2003"
isoreceived="20030718081107"
sent="Fri, 18 Jul 2003 09:10:28 +0100 (BST)"
isosent="20030718081028"
name="bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
email="bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com"
subject="Agenda for RDFCore WG Telecon 2003-07-18"
id="2352593.1058515819127.JavaMail.bwm@MCBRIDE-B-7"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org


Time:
10:00:00 Fri Jul 18 2003 in America/New York duration 60 minutes + possible 30 minute extension

which is equivalent to
15:00:00 Fri Jul 18 2003 in Europe/London

Phone: +1-617-761-6200 (Zakim)#7332
irc: irc.w3.org #rdfcore

1: scribe GrahamK

Please could the minutes conform to:
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Apr/0216.html

requests to support line extentions noted.




2: Roll Call
Regrets from daveB



3: Review Agenda


4: Next telecon 24 Jul 2003 1000 Boston Time
Volunteer Scribe



5: Minutes of 11 Jul  2003 telecon
The minutes should show that Martin and Richard were present only for the 
second hour of the telecon.


See:
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0173.html


6: Confirm Status of Completed Actions

ACTION: 20030627#1 jang
to respond to webont on test cases with a 

ACTION: 20030627#3 bwm
to get schema editor to reflect intensional subClassOf/subPropertyOf in schema spec. 

ACTION: 20030627#7 DanC
to inform WebOnt of change to semantics of subClassOf/subPropertyOf.

ACTION: 20030627#11 jjc
to review syntax document at report back by july 4.

ACTION: 20030711#1 path
to respond to pan-01

see:
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-rdf-comments/2003JulSep/0032.html

ACTION: 20030711#2 bwm
to link to the new lBase document from the RDFCore page



7: Misc Actions
20030425#10  em  carry xmlsch WG's offer of help wrt xmlsch-12 to semantic web coordination group
20030711#4  danc  to get a test case for pfps-09 into OWL test case doc

Status.
             


8: pfps-22,23
Peter has expressed continuing disatisfaction with the current text:

  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0006.html

We agreed changes last week.  Propose action jjc to apply the changes
and respond to Peter.

Also propose action jjc to remove definition of rdfs namespace from
concepts per DanC's request:

  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0164.html
  
             


9: XML Literal
Suggested steps to address I18N concerns:

  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0224.html

and Martin's response.

             


10: Closing Semantics Comments
We have proposals to close:

pfps-02
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0015.html

pfps-06
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0013.html

Jeff Pan's response on Pan-01

http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-rdf-comments/2003JulSep/0040.html

Jeff clarifies comment to be "please define layered subset".  Do we wish
to create this as a postponed issue or how else should we respond?
             


11: Test cases
Propose approve
  http://www.w3.org/2000/10/rdf-tests/rdfcore/tex-01/
  http://www.w3.org/2000/10/rdf-tests/rdfcore/xmlsch-02/
  http://www.w3.org/2000/10/rdf-tests/rdfcore/horst-01/

(the last not present at time of writing the minutes)
  
             


12: Schedule

Completing the process on last call comments

  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jul/0213.html

Do we need a second last call?

Do we need conformance statements?

Status of the docs and reviewing

20030627#11  jjc  to review syntax document at report back by july 4.

20030627#13  path  review concepts document.
20030627#12  jang  review concepts document.

When will we be ready for the next step?

             


13: Responses to Owl comments
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jun/0128.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jun/0079.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jun/0073.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jun/0161.html
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Jun/0159.html
             



------------------------------------------------------------
This agenda was produced by Jema, the Jena WG assistant, running on Jena 2



