docno="lists-023-7926332"
received="Tue Jun 24 13:07:05 2003"
isoreceived="20030624170705"
sent="Tue, 24 Jun 2003 13:04:07 -0400"
isosent="20030624170407"
name="Markku T. Hakkinen"
email="hakkinen@dinf.ne.jp"
subject="RDIG June 23 Telecon Summary"
id="DNEPLEBLKMGBNKKGDDFKMEALCJAA.hakkinen@dinf.ne.jp"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To: Public-Wai-Rd<public-wai-rd@w3.org>



Present:
Mark Hakkinen
Wendy Chisholm
Hazel Kennedy
Marja-Riitta Koivunen
Bill LaPlant
Mark Urban

Agenda:

1. Action Item review
2. Proceedings discussion [1]
3. Planning for the Next Event

[1] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-wai-rd/2003Jun/0005.html

Discussion:

1. Action Item Review:

ACTION: Mark to publish RDIG info slides for others to use - In Progress
ACTION: Mark to create how to participate page - In Progress
ACTION: wac to can the how to join form be made a real form? - In Progress
ACTION: marja to take a stab at creating a topic page for one of the
topics - Draft Complete [2]

[2] http://www.w3.org/WAI/RD/2003/06/visualization/visplan.html


ACTION: hazel to take a look at web-based proceedings. find suggestions for
how to structure ours. - Two sites identified and to be posted to list for
comment by Hazel [3] [4]

[3] http://www.itana2002.org/home/proceedings.asp
[4] http://www.lib.vt.edu/eresources/conf.html

ACTION: wac to pull all of this together (13 or 16 june) - Draft Proceedings
complete [5]

[5] http://www.w3.org/WAI/RD/2003/06/event01-proceedings.html


2. Proceedings Discussion

Draft looks good. More comment/review requested.  Wendy to check on what is
needed in the IPR section, add indenting to improve layout. Mark to add
background text label on left side of page, to identify this as proceedings
document (as with other W3C documents).

Also add more references, which were identified during earlier planning
calls, and to check on status of accessible slides. (mark has the actions).

We need to produce a document that describes how to produce accessible
slides. This should be a link from a "Resources for Workshop Presenters"
pages. The actual slide guidelines should be of general interest to W3C.

Current W3C Slidemaker tool information page [6] is the basic reference.

[6] http://www.w3.org/Talks/slidemaker/YYMMsub/Overview.html.

We need to have information that describes accessible slide creation, that
includes information on image description.

Additional comments on the proceedings should be sent to the list. Will
dicuss on next call.

3. Next Topic Planning

Ideas should be sent to the list. Current possibilities are visualization,
as noted in Marja's draft, and semantic web. Mark will talk with Marja
offline later this week to delve further into the semantic topic.  Plan to
devote much of the next call to discuss topic selection.

Bill raised some issues regarding guidelines that have conflicting
recommendations, and need research. Is this something for RDIG, or something
for the WCAG group to look at?

Send ideas and comments on next topics to the list.

Next planning call on Monday, June 30, 9:00 am-10:00 am EDT / 13:00-14:00
UTC



