docno="lists-014-6895978"
received="Thu Nov 13 00:27:36 2003"
isoreceived="20031113052736"
sent="Thu, 13 Nov 2003 07:03:32 +0200"
isosent="20031113050332"
name="princess helen"
email="ppp_helen1@ananzi.co.za"
subject="reply me"
id="web180546855@mail01.infosat.net"
charset="ISO-88591"
expires="1"

To:ppp_helen1@ananzi.co.za



Dear Sir,

I am Princess helen, daughter of HRH King Solomon
Abonime,the king of Ogoni Kingdom. I am 30 years old and a
graduate of Mass Communication. My father was the king of
Ogoni Kingdom the highest oil producing area in Nigeria. He
was in charge of reviving royalties from the multi-national
oil companies and government on behalf of the oil producing
communities in Nigeria. After the hanging of the Ogoni
Nine(9) including Ken Saro Wiwa by the late dictator

General Sani Abacha, my father suffered stroke and died in
August27th this year. But before his death, he called me
and told me he has Twenty Three Million Five Hundred and
Sixty Thousand Dollars (USD23,560,000.00) cash in his
possession, specially deposited in a Security vault company
here. He advised me not to tell anybody except my mother
who is the last wife of the (8) eight wives that he
married. My mother did not bear any male child for
him.Which implies that all my father's properties,
companies e.t.c., we have no share in them because my
mother has no male child according to African Tradition. My
father therefore secretly gave me all the relevant
documents of
the said money, and told me that I should use this money
with my mother and my younger sisters because he knows that
tradtionally, if he dies we cannnot get anything, as
inheritance. He importantly advised me that I should seek
foreign assistannce and that I should not invest this money
here in Nigeria because of his other wives and male
children who happen to be my elders. 



I am soliciting for your immediate assistance to get a
Bungalow for us, where I will live with my mother and two
younger sisters and further advise me where and how I will
invest the balance money overseas, possibly on products of
your company and other profitable ventures.I believe that
by the special grace of God, you will help us move this
money out of Nigeria to any country of your choice where we
can invest this money judiciously with you.You are entitled
to a reasonable part of this money based
on our agreement, and God will bless you as you help us.

Looking forward to hear from you as soon as possible.

Regards.

Princess helen
 
==
Download ringtones, logos and picture messages at Ananzi Mobile Fun.
http://www.ananzi.co.za/cgi-bin/goto.pl?mobile



