docno="lists-061-9151999"
received="Fri Jun 16 10:01:33 2000"
isoreceived="20000616140133"
sent="Fri, 16 Jun 2000 16:01:29 +0200"
isosent="20000616140129"
name="Daniel Dardailler"
email="danield@w3.org"
subject="WAI EO Minutes June 16 2000 teleconf"
id="200006161401.e5GE1TH26782@zidane.inria.fr"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-eo@w3.org


* Attendance

Judy Brewer (chair)
Daniel Dardailler (scribe)
William Loughborough
Harvey Bingham
Jeffrey Turner
Carlos Velasco 
Marja-Ritta Koivunen
Eric Velleman


* Outreach Updates

Daniel: w3c/wai/seminar at INRA Webmaster conf last week in Montpelier.
    showed video, gave french quicktips (with spelling errors!)
    would 

Eric: we had our first official outreach for National Education Web
(knowdledge Web) 3.5 hours on accessibility. When they left they were
convinced of the importance. Last Tuesday in The Hague.

William: focusing more attention on web access as important for the
disability right movement. 

Judy: 4hours workshop yesterday at Design for the 21st century conf in
Rhodes Island. Lots of time discussing needs and rationales. Went over 
resources. Questions of making 3D web site accessible! Did not go over 
all WAI materials. 20 people, but all engaged.

Carlos: spent a week in Bruxelles talking about eEurope. Important
meeting in Portugal next week. They may incorporate compliance with
WCAG in their goals (not mention of level A, AA, etc). Needs to go thru
approval, into directives, etc. Will take some time. 
 *ACTION ITEM* Carlos will send the draft to the WAI EO list.


* Training page "Planning a Training on Web Accessibility" 
  http://www.w3.org/WAI/training/ 

Daniel/Marja: some general comments on sub-site, similar to other made
last time. Judy will update the pages soon. Daniel suggests a onepage
version for easy download/reading.

Jeffrey/Judy: discussion of presentation issue with yellow background
and definition sublist. need more bulleting for easier reading in
Jaws.

"Resources and Approaches for Trainings" page.

Discussion on merging/reordering bullet on barrier and the one
presenting of assistive technologies.

Judy: tag some item as easy and other as more indepth, to combine but
differentiate them.

Jeffrey: more logical to have a section on things that work and then
things that don't work. 

Judy: probably combine first and fourth items of Assistive Tech section.

Business case: pointing at 2 slides in Overview + Mobile demo.

Daniel: suggest merging legal here.
Judy: OK.

Carlos: we could point at better statistics (Georgia Tech?)
  *ACTION ITEM* will send a URL to the list.

Judy: in fact, this page needs more explanation as to why it's here.

Judy: people should continue looking at this resource.

Eric: propose to run a keystroke testbed.
Judy: should be done in the UA WG.
Harvey: yes, this is a new issue.



