docno="lists-071-13007026"
received="Wed Nov 19 10:24:04 2003"
isoreceived="20031119152404"
sent="Wed, 19 Nov 2003 17:23:35 +0200"
isosent="20031119152335"
name="lisa seeman"
email="seeman@netvision.net.il"
subject="3.2"
id="000001c3aeb1$1a4b6920$ad00000a@patirsrv.patir.com"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="002c01c3a8ce$b4cba480$6501a8c0&#64;cast.org"
expires="-1"

To:<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


Regrets for missing the Tokyo FTF, it is too expensive to get there (by
some  order of magnitude)
 
 
 
Comments for the latest draft
 
 
I need to ping 3.2 again
 
 
Can we have something at least some entry at  level one,- I think WCAG
2.0 will be a step down for 1.0 if the guideline for understandable text
is demoted
 
For example, I still do not agree that unique page titles can not be
level one, and I think there is a fair amount of agreement on this
 
I also think that at the least a review of the site level one
 
 
Further the checkpoint need to be worded that equivalents can be used.

 
also important maybe level 1:  provide headings and linked text that are
unique and clear when  read out of context
 
why has the lexical proposal been removed? A lot of people like it (In
fact some European web content being written is now using that
techniques -even before it is a requirement :) )
 
Can we add lexicon proposal at least at  level two? (why can this not be
level one) 
<original proposal>
Benefits.

The fact: using simple words and simple language will allow more people
to understand you. 

There are millions of people who have problems understanding language
-written or spoken. There are many people who have worked hard the last
thirty years of their life to build up a vocabulary of say 1000 words. 

If you use simple words more people can understand your content

I know Avi ( Voice of America) has simple language broadcasts/. All
there news items are described only using words from a short "simple
language dictionary/lexicon". This lexicon is available, and is short,
and they manage to describe all their news broadcasts using it. 

We want to say: use words that more people can understand For example
use words in a six year old's vocabulary not. However if this is too
difficult for your site's content, then try and keep the "age" bar down
as much as you can.

Not very testable or normative.

But this is both testable and normative

"All terms  used are available in a linked to, fully accessible  simple
language lexicon, or supplementary lexicon of topic specific Jargon" 

There are any number of lexicons available. I know when they test
children's development they have lists of words that child is expected
to understand and use correctly at any given age. Pick your lexicon -
but stick to it

 

</original proposal>
 

All the best

Lisa Seeman

 

Visit us at the UB  <http://www.ubaccess.com/> Access website

UB Access - Moving internet accessibility

 



