docno="lists-057-11935261"
received="Fri Feb  8 08:41:53 2002"
isoreceived="20020208134153"
sent="Fri, 8 Feb 2002 21:10:31 +0800"
isosent="20020208131031"
name="Aly Yangson"
email="alyyangz@yahoo.com"
subject="JOIN FOR FREE!... earn an extra Income over the Internet"
id="200202081310.HAA23134@liza.siteprotect.com"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:<w3c-translators@w3.org>

Hello FRIENDS, 

My name is ALY Yangson. I am now focusing on one 
online opportunity. 

I have tried several of these 
online opportunities full of hype promising us 
thousands of dollars every month. 

It is a sad fact that many people who are in need 
to earn additional income is being victimized by 
this fly by night scam artists. Every time I tried 
one opportunity after the other, I ended more broke 
than ever. 

As a result of trying all these opportunities, I 
have decided to select on my portfolio the company 
which is true to their words. Not the one full of 
hype. The only one that has consistently sent me 
the monthly check. Even without the hype they have 
given me the best compensation plan with their high 
% commission. They are providing real service not 
the one that simply transfer wealth from the new 
signups to the people at the top of the pyramid. 
They are not a form of a pyramid scam. 

Also when you join, you will have a team of upline 
sponsors who will help you succeed every step of 
the way. Instead of being left alone, you will be 
guided step by step by real people, not those 
autoresponders. 

Do not believe in do nothing, no recruiting, no 
selling schemes. They are scams. You might want to 
try it to prove my words. Only you can make your 
own success together with the help of your 
sponsors. 

If you have 2 to 3 hours a day, you will be able to 
earn a full income in a few months. And there is 
absolutely no limit as how much you can earn. It is 
designed to gain momentum after some time. 


But I prefer to avoid such statements as "You will 
get rich". I read it everywhere and I do not want 
to sound like them. 

To get your FREE membership ID send email to 
alyyangz@yahoo.com and put "SIGN ME UP FOR FREE" 
in the subject and your fullname in the body of your email. 



Regards, 

Ahlz Yangson
alyryangson@yahoo.com 


Note:   You don't need to request for removal. 
       This is a one time email. 
       Your email address will be automatically de-activated 
       in our list if you don't reply in this mail. 



