docno="lists-083-16611857"
received="Tue Jan 18 10:55:50 2000"
isoreceived="20000118155550"
sent="Tue, 18 Jan 2000 09:53:36 -0600"
isosent="20000118155336"
name="Jon Gunderson"
email="jongund@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu"
subject="AGENDA: W3C WAI User Agent Telecon 19 January 2000"
id="4.1.20000118095133.00aed8f0@staff.uiuc.edu"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

WAI UA Telecon for January 19th, 2000 

Chair: Jon Gunderson 
Date: Wednesday, January 19th
Time: 12:00 pm to 1:30 pm Eastern Standard Time, USA
Call-in: Longfellow Bridge (+1) (617) 252-1038

Agenda

Review Open Action Items

   1.IJ: Update document with resolutions for issue LC#162 

   2.IJ: Update document with resolutions for issue LC#166 

   3.IJ: Update document with resolutions for issue LC#175 

   4.IJ: Update document with resolutions for Issue LC#176 

   5.IJ: Repropose checkpoint 1.5 

   6.IJ: Add info related to searching for non-rendered information (or
searches using voice output user agents) to appendix 

   7.IJ: Adopt changes in wording for Checkpoint 1.1 

   8.JG: Find a host/date for next FTF meeting 

   9.JG: Take issue of mobile devices/guidelines in next WAI CG meeting. 

  10.CMN: Follow up on this with some learning disability people on
graphical configuration issue 

  11.DA: Follow up with Alan Cantor on what is the critical component(s)
for graphical configuration (done by email during meeting) 

  12.DB: Send proposal for single key access wording for checkpoint 10.3 

  13.DB: Ask IE Team about publication of review of IE 5 and Pri 1
checkpoints. 

  14.DB: Find out how developers find out which appropriate triggers to use
in Windows for using built-in accessibility 
features (i.e. sound sentry, show sounds, ...)

  15.DP: Propose new Checkpoint 1.5 for access to system messages 

  16.GR: Send to the list techniques for how to use and control focus to
not have new windows cause problems for usability. In particular, how this
will work with ATs. 

  17.GR: Send screen shot of JFW link list to the list 

  18.GR: Remind DP of this action to proposed new text for checkpoint 1.5 

  19.MK: Find out techniques for sending text search requests to servers of
streamed text. 

  20.MR: Review techniques for topic 3.1 (Multi-media) 

  21.MR: Review techniques for Guideline 4 (Multi-media) 

  22.MR: Run a multimedia player through the guidelines for January. 

  23.MQ: Ask Mark about meaning of comment raised in Issue #167 

  24.MQ: Ask Mark Hakkinen about telephone browsers and the guidelines. 

  25.WC: Take form submission to GL WG to discuss issues related to
inadvertent submission. 

Announcements 

     Regular UA telecon scheduled 20 January 2000 at 2:00 pm to 3:30 pm
Eastern Standard Time, USA 
     http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/2000/01/wai-ua-telecon-20000120.html 

Discussion 

   1.Candidate Recommendation planning update 

   2.Face to face planning update 

   3.Updated working draft of the guidelines and techniques published on 15
January 

   4.WD#185: clarification of "single key" access 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#185 

   5.LC#142: Checkpoint 1.5 (output device-independence) needs clarification. 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#142 

   6.LC#136: Proposal for checklist delivery (part of conformance)
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#136 

   7.LC#126: Proposed change in wording to 5.5 Provide programmatic
notification of changes to content and user interface controls (including
selection and focus).
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#126 

   8.WD#180: 10.8 should be priority 2 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#180 

   9.LC#127: How to verify 5.7 (Provide programmatic exchange of
information in a timely manner.)? 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#127 

  10.WD#181: Request for a wrapper note designed for AT developers
explaining relation to guidelines 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#181 

  11.WD#178: In 10.1 and 10.2 what does communicate through an API mean 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#178 

  12.WD#177: User control of current focus change and notification. 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#177 

  13.WD#186: Proposed removal of Note in 2.1
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#186 

  14.WD#187: Proposed change in wording to 1.6 (profiles) 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#187 

  15.WD#188: Add definition of disability? (to CG) 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#188 

  16.WD#189: Proposed change to checkpoint 2.3 (missing alt info) 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#189 

  17.LC#112: Split checkpoint 10.1 into two separate checkpoints for author
and user agent input functionalities and mark as an issue during last call 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#112 


Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Chair, W3C WAI User Agent Working Group
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL  61820

Voice: (217) 244-5870
Fax: (217) 333-0248

E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu

WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua



