docno="lists-068-10911576"
received="Wed Jun 27 15:26:41 2001"
isoreceived="20010627192641"
sent="Wed, 27 Jun 2001 15:35:18 -0400"
isosent="20010627193518"
name="Wendy A Chisholm"
email="wendy@w3.org"
subject="Preliminary minutes from F2F"
id="4.2.0.58.20010627145246.00b0ac30@localhost"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-gl@w3.org

These are not the final notes from the meeting since I have not received 
all of the notes that people took during the meeting.  However, for the 
curious among you, these will generally reflect the discussion that 
occurred last week.

In particular, the sections of the day that are most uncertain are:
- most all of Wednesday
- Matt May's comments during the 11-12:30 discussion on Thursday
- the 1:30-3:00 discussion of baseline capabilities on Thursday

I have at least included my recollection, but I have forgotten many of the 
details and might have remembered resolutions incorrectly.

http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/2001/06/21-f2f-minutes.html
--
wendy a chisholm
world wide web consortium
web accessibility initiative
seattle, wa usa
tel: +1 206.706.5263
/--



