docno="lists-023-5999492"
received="Thu Mar 11 14:06:24 2004"
isoreceived="20040311190624"
sent="Thu, 11 Mar 2004 13:05:56 -0600"
isosent="20040311190556"
name="Shawn Lawton Henry"
email="shawn@w3.org"
subject="RE: WSTF: CSUN Closed Card Sort"
id="000c01c4079b$e1eeb7a0$8c3fa842@SLHenry"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="07fe01c40792$11c21c10$7900a8c0&#64;VAIO"
expires="-1"

To:"'Carol at Kognitive.com'"<carol@kognitive.com>,<public-wai-eo-site@w3.org>


SH: How do you propose to overcome the problems that folks had last time
we tried card sort, for example, people not understanding what the
documents are from the title?
 
CS: I'm hoping that by eliminating many of the cards we can simplify the
excercise to such an extent that there is much less confusion.  However,
given the fact that most users of the site are familiar with only one of
the 3 main working groups I think we will still need to act as
facillitators more than a "normal" Card Sort excercise would entail.
 
SLH2: And some people will not be familiar with _any_ of the working
groups, and maybe not even any of the documents!
 
I think it would be good to plan ahead of time what will be said to
explain the "cards" - 1. so the task force can agree ahead of time, 2.
so there is consistency between what the different facilitators say.
 
===
 
SH: Have you planned methods to conduct the card sort with participants
with various disabilities?
 
CS: Partcipants who are unable to physically manipulate the cards, could
either have their assistants act as their "hands" or we could depending
on the situation.
 
SLH2: Would be good to have all the "cards" and groups also available in
accessible HTML &/or text in case that is easier for people.
 
CS: Participants who are Deaf or hard-of-hearing who know English
shouldn't be a problem as we can create written instructions (I've done
this before for these types of participants).
 
SLH2: Could you (or someone!) draft these instructions - 1. so the task
force can agree ahead of time, 2. other facilitators can use this as an
introduction to the card sorting process so there is consistency. (Also,
probably good if Carol, Charmane, Blossom, and anyone else conducting
card sorting get together before conducting card sorting to make sure
"all on same page".)
 
CS: Blind or sight-impaired participants who have a good memory and
hearing could still do the excercise verbally.  Also, I could prepare
text documents that they could manipulate on a laptop or other device -
does anyone think that would be a good idea?
 
SLH2: Yes, think would be good to have all the "cards" and groups
available in accessible HTML &/or text in case that is easier for
people.
 
CS: Participants with cognitive disabilities will be challenging.  This
would need to be done in a quiet room with lots of time.
Participants who are not literate in English for cultural (ASL or other
language is first) reasons is easier.  I've done usability testing with
participants in this area and with a translator it is no problem - it's
difficult at best without.
 
===
 
SH: Have you thought about recruiting participants at CSUN?
 
CS: Yes - at a previous conference I set up a table with posters and
signage asking for volunteers to help with research.  If we can create
some similar signage with the W3C/WAI logo's and also ask for volunteers
we should be fine.  At such a large conference I suspect we may have to
turn people away since we are limited in the amount of tests we can
physically run.  If we can create post-cards or similarly sized paper to
hand out with a time and place before testing that would help get the
word out as well.
 
SLH2: Again, we need to get  all of this approved ahead of time - with
WSTF, with Judy, and with CSUN folks. 
 
Carol, since there is so little response on the list, you might want to
contact some people directly for help  & review comments.
 
===
 
Thanks for all the work, Carol !
 
OTHERS, please pitch in.
 
~ Shawn



