docno="lists-101-9391614"
received="Mon Jun 24 03:01:09 2002"
isoreceived="20020624070109"
sent="Mon, 24 Jun 2002 02:57:52 -0400"
isosent="20020624065752"
name="Robert Clary"
email="bclary@netscape.com"
subject="Demo DOM Core 1, DOM Core 2, DOM HTML 2 TS using jsUnit 1.3.0"
id="3D16C2F0.9040507@netscape.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:www-dom-ts@w3.org


Please see <http://bclary.com/dom-ts/readme.html> for an example of
using jsUnit 1.3.0 in the DOM Test Suites.

This online example contains the full tests for DOM Core 1, DOM Core 2
and DOM HTML 2 as of June 21 and can be run in either Mozilla or
Internet Explorer. It has been tested on Windows 2000 using Mozilla
1.0.1 and Internet Explorer 6.

You can select the implementation to use, the content type, several
parser options and either a test suite or individual tests.

You can browse the directories and tests by visiting
<http://bclary.com/dom-ts/>.

The script DOMTestCase.js, the transforms test-to-ecmascript.xsl and
test-to-jsunit.xsl were patched as well as several tests. The readme
contains the details and rational behind the changes.

<http://bclary.com/dom-ts/changes.diff> contains a diff showing all the
changes.

I created jsUnit Test Suites (by hand) to replace the 'all' versions of
the tests. I did not attempt to modify the transforms to produce these
suites although that should be relatively easy for someone with more
skill in XSL.

A few comments about testing results/strategies

Mozilla will have problems with the Applet tests if you try to run the 
DOM HTML Level 2 tests as text/xml. You can either disable Java or you 
can choose the non-Applet/non-Object test suite if you wish to test DOM 
HTML Level 2 as text/xml. There is no problem when testing DOM HTML 
Level 2 as text/html.

Internet Explorer may have problems with the Applet tests if you try to 
run the DOM HTML Level 2 tests as text/html. (IE fails all the DOM HTML 
Level 2 tests if you run them as text/xml and it does not matter if you 
have Java enabled or not). Again you can either disable Java or choose 
the non-Applet/non-Object test suite.

Bob



