docno="lists-015-14911520"
received="Wed Apr  2 06:36:25 2003"
isoreceived="20030402113625"
sent="Wed, 2 Apr 2003 12:35:34 +0100"
isosent="20030402113534"
name="Richard Ishida"
email="ishida@w3.org"
subject="FW: MINUTES: I18n GEO teleconference 030319"
id="001301c2f90b$fa3be160$7801000a@w3c40upc3ma3j2"
charset="USASCII"
inreplyto="MINUTES: I18n GEO teleconference 030319"
expires="1"

To:<public-i18n-geo@w3.org>



-----Original Message-----
From: Tex Texin [mailto:tex@i18nguy.com] 
Sent: 02 April 2003 01:57
To: ishida@w3.org
Subject: Re: MINUTES: I18n GEO teleconference 030319


I attended although I was late. (I think.)

Richard Ishida wrote:
> 
> MINUTES
> 
> W3C I18n GEO Phone Conference
> 19 March 2003
> 
> Present: Richard (chair, scribe), Lloyd, Andrew, Phil
> Regrets: Steve, Russ, Suzanne, Martin
> 
> New Actions
> ============
> 
> ACTION: RI, apply agreed changes to FTF minutes and publish.
> 
> ACTION: AC to create a list of possibilities for 'non-displayable' 
> characters
> 
> ACTION: Lloyd,send a list of deprecated tags in HTML by next meeting
> 
> Prior Action Items
> ==============
> 
> ACTION: TT, RI need to recontact Bill Hall
> DONE.  Will talk at Unicode Conference.
> 
> ACTION: RI to send invitation to Gerald Edgar, who observed during the

> Tech Plen DONE
> 
> ACTION: RI to follow up tommorrow with Barry Caplan.
> DONE
> 
> ACTION: Russ, follow-up wrt possible new member from Trados
> 
> ACTION: RI to propose some new teleconf times to cope with daylight 
> savings at next week's meeting. DONE during meeting for two weeks 
> ahead and ongoing.
> 
> ACTION: RI to ping Suzanne again.
> DONE
> 
> ACTION: RI, set up an area on the W3C site for people to post 
> proposals, and give people access. DONE
> 
> Action: Richard, look at ways of making the document print with a 
> smaller font, while avoiding any WAI issues.
> 
> All: send in pointers to existing guidelines
> 
> Suzanne: put together a list of short term vs. long term goals related

> to education and outreach - send it to us for discussion
> 
> Dependencies
> ===========
> None.
> 
> New participants
> ==============
> Phil Arko introduced himself.
> 
> Barry Caplan of i8n.com has also joined the WG.
> 
> Meetings & Events
> ===============
> New telecon times (due to changes in daylight savings) from 8 april
> onwards:
>         GMT
>         Friday, April 18, 2003, at 7:00 PM
> 
>         Seattle
>         Fri 12:00 PM *
> 
>         Boston
>         Fri 3:00 PM *
> 
>         London
>         Fri 8:00 PM *
> 
>         Europe 9pm
> 
>         Australia
>         Sat 5:00 AM
> 
> No telecon next week due to Unicode Conference.
> 
> Richard will make a pesentation at the regular W3C Offices team 
> meeting on Friday.  The aim is to inform the office staff around the 
> world of what we are doing and solicit their help and support.
> 
> Changes to FTF minutes proposed by Richard were accepted.
> ACTION: RI, apply agreed changes to FTF minutes and publish.
> 
> Review of work progress
> ==================
> All planned conversions to invited expert have been done.  Invited 
> experts can now upload information to the upload location at 
> http://www.w3.org/International/geo/upload/  Information was sent out 
> from webreq@w3.org about tools that can be used for this.
> 
> Ask Richard or webreq@w3.org if you have any questions/problems.
> 
> We have to decided to use the term 'directives' for the pithy 
> directive statements in a technique, formerly called 'rules'.
> 
> Content development
> ================
> Brainstorming session held:
> 
> Section 3.1
>         Agreed that we should recommend the use of CSS rather than the

> Font tag
>         Lloyd has been making a list of deprecated tags in HTML - we 
> may want to add this list as an appendix or to the hints & tips
>         ACTION: Lloyd,send a list of deprecated tags in HTML by next 
> meeting & we can decide what to do with
> 
> Section 3.2
>         AC:  the meaning of 'undisplayable characters' is not clear  -

> need to change the title !
>         non-graphic? Control chars? Font absence? Lacking rendering in

> browsers/OS,  eg Khmer, Lao?  Characters missing from Unicode?
>         ACTION: AC to create a list of possibilities for 
> 'non-displayable' characters
> 
>         another question is how to ensure that authors ensure that 
> pages are read
>         <<authors should provide links to information to help the user

> when there are known issues relating to the display of a particular 
> script or language>>
>         [could include where to download fonts from]
>         <<provide the information in a way it will work, ie.
>                 << use a system that maximises likelihood of correct 
> display >>
>                 << tell people how to find fonts for ordinary 
> languages
> - especially for minorities >>
>         need a sectoin suggesting that authors ensure that these
things
> work
> 
>         do we need a chapter 20? How to perform validation & proofing 
> of sites - check that sites display correctly
>                 or section by section, we could ask how do you 
> validate that you made the right choices - eg. escaping too many 
> chars, do the fonts work?
>                 LH sounds a bit like WAI conformance tests
> 
> Next meeting:
> ==========
> Same time, same bridge, in two weeks.
> 
> ============
> Richard Ishida
> W3C
> 
> tel: +44 1753 480 292
> http://www.w3.org/International/ http://www.w3.org/People/Ishida/

-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------
Tex Texin   cell: +1 781 789 1898   mailto:Tex@XenCraft.com
Xen Master                          http://www.i18nGuy.com
                         
XenCraft            http://www.XenCraft.com
Making e-Business Work Around the World
-------------------------------------------------------------



