docno="lists-004-5075305"
received="Wed Sep 17 05:57:46 2003"
isoreceived="20030917095746"
sent="Wed, 17 Sep 2003 02:57:10 -0700"
isosent="20030917095710"
name="MR ,G .BENSON"
email="g_benson@post.cz"
subject="Your Confidential Alliance Needed."
id="20030917095741.446C614022@w3c2.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



Mr G.Benson
Telephone 234 803 3942326
Email:g_benson@post.cz

Dear Sir

I am an accoutant with CITIZEN INTERNTIONAL BANK ,My
name is Mr G.Benson a Banker. I am the Account
officer to ENGINEER (Barton ) a National of your
country,who is a contractor with the DEPERTMENT OF
PETROLUME RESOURCES VICTORIA ISLAND LAGOS . Here in
after shall be referred to as my client On 30 JAN
2000, my client,his wife, and their three children
were involved in the the kenya airways flight with
registration number 5Y-BEN which departed from Nairobi
to destination Lagos and they all family died in this
fatal aircrash on 30 JAN 2000 Since then I have made
several inquiries to your embassy to locate any of my
clients extended Relatives, this has also proved
unsuccessful.

After these several unsuccessful attempts, I decided
to trace his last name over the Internet, to locate
any member of his family hence I contacted you. I have
contacted you to assist in repatriating the money and
property left behind by my client before they get
confiscated or declared unserviceable by the bank
where these huge deposits were lodged, particularly
the CITIZEN INTERNTIONAL BANK. Where the deceased had
an account Valued at about ($35 million u s dollars)
has issued me a notice to provide the next of kin. Or
have the account confiscated within the next ten
official working days.


Since I have been unsuccessful in locating the
relatives for over 2 years now, I seek your consent to
present you as the next of kin of the deceased since
you have the same last name so that the proceeds of
this account valued at ($35 million US Dollars)can be
paid to you and then you and me Can share the
money.50% to me and 40% to you. While 10% for
unforeseen bottle necks we might incur in this
transaction an attorney will be contracted to helpus
revalidated and notarize allthe necessary legal
documents that can be used to back up any claim we may
make.

All I require is your honest cooperation to enable us
see this deal through. I guarantee that this will be
executed under a legitimate arrangement that will
protect you. From any breach of the law.

Best regards

Mr G .BENSON



