docno="lists-046-14801920"
received="Mon Nov 19 12:44:37 2001"
isoreceived="20011119174437"
sent="Mon, 19 Nov 2001 09:44:49 -0800"
isosent="20011119174449"
name="Janet Daly"
email="janet@w3.org"
subject="News Release: World Wide Web Consortium Announces W3C Day in Japan"
id="3BF94511.3695F0C3@w3.org"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-news@w3.org


For more information on W3C Day, please contact Janet Daly,
janet@w3.org, +1 617 253 5884, or contact the person in your region.


World Wide Web Consortium Announces W3C Day in Japan

Meet Technologists from the Birthplace of XML and XHTML; learn about
Semantic Web, SVG, and Device Independence developments

Contact America -- 
     Janet Daly, <janet@w3.org>, +1.617.253.5884 or +1.617.253.2613 
Contact Europe -- 
     Marie-Claire Forgue, <mcf@w3.org>, +33.492.38.75.94 
Contact Asia -- 
     Saeko Takeuchi <saeko@w3.org>, +81.466.49.1170 


http://www.w3.org/ -- 19 November 2001 -- The World Wide Web Consortium
holds its first public event in Japan, W3C Day, on 29 November 2001, at
the Mita Campus of Keio University, Tokyo, Japan. Keio Research
Institute at Shonan Fujisawa Campus (SFC) is hosting W3C Day. 

The event, which is conducted in both English and Japanese, gives the
public a chance to hear from the W3C Team about a range of technologies
currently under development, as well as recent achievements in areas
such as graphics, the Semantic Web, mobile technology advances, and
more. The W3C Technical team is presenting best practice implementations
of W3C Recommendations, and gives the audience a view of future work.

Attendees have the opportunity to meet with members of the W3C Team, and
learn how W3C's over 500 members work together to create the
technologies that serve as standards for the World Wide Web.

Hidetaka Ohto, W3C Fellow from Panasonic, and Chair of the Device
Independence Working Group, is the chairman for this event. The W3C Team
presenters include:

* Dr. Marie-Claire Forgue, W3C European Communications Officer, 
  provides an overview of W3C's work 

* Dr. Tatsuya Hagino, W3C Deputy Director for Asia, presents on 
  the Semantic Web 
     
* Dr. Jos? Kahan presents on Annotea, an Open RDF Infrastructure 
  for Shared Web Annotations 
     
* Mr. Kazuhiro Kitagawa, W3C Device Independence Activity Lead, 
  presents on the latest developments to enable fuller Web access 
  for mobile devices, and newer, non-traditional appliances 
     
* Mr. Chris Lilley, Graphics Activity Lead, presents on Scalable 
  Vector Graphics (SVG) and the latest developments with Mobile SVG 
  and XML 
     
* Dr. Nobuo Saito, Associate Chairman of W3C, presents on recent W3C
  work in other areas such as XML and Web Services. 

All are welcome to attend W3C Day, but registration is required. To
register, or to learn more about this W3C event, please refer to the
following pages:

For Program Information: 
     http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Hosts/Keio/w3cday-2001/agenda.html 

or contact Ms. Saeko Takeuchi, at +81.466.49.1170.

About the World Wide Web Consortium [W3C]

The W3C was created to lead the Web to its full potential by developing
common protocols that promote its evolution and ensure its
interoperability. It is an international industry consortium jointly run
by the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science (MIT LCS) in the USA, the
National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Control (INRIA)
in France and Keio University in Japan. Services provided by the
Consortium include: a repository of information about the World Wide Web
for developers and users, and various prototype and sample applications
to demonstrate use of new technology. To date, over 500 organizations
are Members of the Consortium. For more information see
http://www.w3.org/



