docno="lists-017-5832744"
received="Mon Nov 24 12:00:12 2003"
isoreceived="20031124170012"
sent="Sun, 23 Nov 2003 17:26:04 +0100"
isosent="20031123162604"
name="Rigo Wenning"
email="rigo@w3.org"
subject="[Agenda] Call 26 November 2003"
id="20031123162604.GA1525@rigo.w3.org"
charset="usascii"
expires="1"

To: public-p3p-spec<public-p3p-spec@w3.org>



The next P3P specification group conference call will be on
Wednesday, November 26, 2003, 11 am - 12 pm US Eastern. Dial-in
information is available at
http://www.w3.org/P3P/Group/Specification/1.1/meetings.html

1/ Service definition in specification
We still have the wording in the specification, but I can't 
find any record of a decision in the minutes.

2/ Discussion about agent relationsships

What is same entity, what is agent and what is third party?
Any suggestions on that?  P3P actually defines entity and
relatet parties in <ours />:

Ourselves and/or entities acting as our agents or entities for
whom we are acting as an agent: An agent in this instance is
defined as a third party that processes data only on behalf of
the service provider for the completion of the stated
purposes. (e.g., the service provider and its printing bureau
which prints address labels and does nothing further with the
information.)

This means agents are already included in <ours /> but this
can't be expressed in the PRF until now. 

Jack suggested the following Definition:

AGENT (Processor)   means that the Web Beacon is being
delivered by a n Agent for purposes exclusively related to the
needs of the First Party. In this context, the contract
between the First Party and the Agent must clarify that the
Agent cannot use any individual, non-aggregated data gathered
through the Web Beacon for its own purposes. In other words,
the data is still  owned  by the First Party. The use of
anonymous data by the Agent for aggregate or statistical
purposes does not constitute a use for the Agent s purposes.

The Processor-Definition of the EU-Directive is the following:
Article 2:
(e) 'processor' shall mean a natural or legal person, public
authority, agency or any other body which processes personal
data on behalf of the controller;

3/ Update on p3p beyond http

I'll give a short update from my trip in Japan, meeting with
others from the team.

Best, 

Rigo



