docno="lists-012-10750765"
received="Mon Jul 19 16:49:15 1999"
isoreceived="19990719204915"
sent="Mon, 19 Jul 1999 17:47:29 +0200 (MET DST)"
isosent="19990719154729"
name="Koen Holtman"
email="koen@win.tue.nl"
subject="Re: Last Call: Applicability Statement for HTTP State Management  to BCP"
id="199907191547.RAA04436@wsooti06.win.tue.nl"
charset="USASCII"
inreplyto="001401becfe5$0f8cd1e0$79d3000d&#64;copper.parc.xerox.com"
expires="1"


To:masinter@parc.xerox.com(Larry Masinter)
Cc:Koen.Holtman@cern.ch,http-wg@hplb.hpl.hp.com,iesg@ietf.org,http-state@lists.research.bell-labs.com

Larry Masinter:
>
[....]
>Anyone who is not satisfied with the resolution of this dispute
>can follow the dispute reoslution procedures outlined in RFC 2026,
>but I maintain that, as far as the IETF process is concerned, the
>working group reached "consensus" (albeit rough) on the entire
>document.

Dear Larry,

I am sorry if you took my assertion about a lack of consensus on 2109
somewhat personally in your capacity as HTTP working group chair.
Reading your message, with all its invocation of procedural machinery,
I am unsure whether you believe I was trying to somehow dispute old
actions of the chair.  I was not.  I have no strong interest in
examining the question of whether or not the HTTP wg chair applied any
rules correctly some N years ago.  For what it is worth, I certainly
recall that, after 2109 was published, it became much more
controversial than its draft had ever been in the working group.

The main point I have been trying to make here is that there is
*currently*, in my considered opinion, no consensus, rough or
otherwise, on the correct default for the third party cookie filter in
the state-man-mec which is now in IETF last call.  After publication
of 2109 there has been a lot of discussion, but little convergence.  I
trust the IESG to sort out the process implications of all this when
they make a decision on the draft.

Now, as you were also somewhat involved in the post-2109 discussions,
I would be interested in your view of the level of agreement reached
therein.


>Larry Masinter
>(as HTTP working group chair)

Koen.



