docno="lists-106-3410336"
received="Thu Oct 28 17:56:00 1999"
isoreceived="19991028215600"
sent="Fri, 29 Oct 1999 01:53:18 +0400"
isosent="19991028215318"
name="Anton Yakutov"
email="yakutov@peterlink.ru"
subject="[www-email-discuss] &lt;none&gt;"
id="003101bf218e$d9a67260$e10bf2c3@antony"
charset="koi8-r"

   
To: <www4mail-comments@w3.org>

1)Pleas send All this or Why get to this?
2)Why use news:// ?

quota.txt.ru HELP  quota.txt.ru
help.txt.ru HELP  help.txt.ru
xjsdump.txt.ru HELP  xjsdump.txt.ru
xmyquota.txt.ru HELP  xmyquota.txt.ru
xsubmit_on.txt.ru HELP  xsubmit_on.txt.ru
xuudeview.txt.ru HELP  xuudeview.txt.ru
xmime.txt.ru HELP  xmime.txt.ru
getps.txt.ru HELP  getps.txt.ru
tsource.txt.ru HELP  tsource.txt.ru
ximage.txt.ru HELP  ximage.txt.ru
xdocinfo.txt.ru HELP  xdocinfo.txt.ru
xnostat.txt.ru HELP  xnostat.txt.ru
xbase.txt.ru HELP  xbase.txt.ru
xlanguage.txt.ru HELP  xlanguage.txt.ru
xnoautozip.txt.ru HELP  xnoautozip.txt.ru
xbypass.txt.ru HELP  xbypass.txt.ru
xuuencode.txt.ru HELP  xuuencode.txt.ru
xget..ru HELP  xget..ru
forms.txt.ru HELP  forms.txt.ru
get.txt.ru HELP  get.txt.ru
xurlcode.txt.ru HELP  xurlcode.txt.ru
split.txt.ru HELP  split.txt.ru
xseparate.txt.ru HELP  xseparate.txt.ru
xextraopt.txt.ru HELP  xextraopt.txt.ru
xscs.txt.ru HELP  xscs.txt.ru
xform.txt.ru HELP  xform.txt.ru
xnoframe.txt.ru HELP  xnoframe.txt.ru
end.txt.ru HELP  end.txt.ru
denials.txt.ru HELP  denials.txt.ru
errors.txt.ru HELP  errors.txt.ru
getpart.txt.ru HELP  getpart.txt.ru
getsize.txt.ru HELP  getsize.txt.ru
send.txt.ru HELP  send.txt.ru
source.txt.ru HELP  source.txt.ru
xcharset.txt.ru HELP  xcharset.txt.ru
xsource.txt.ru HELP  xsource.txt.ru
xnoscript.txt.ru HELP  xnoscript.txt.ru
xformreply.txt.ru HELP  xformreply.txt.ru
xsubmit_now.txt.ru HELP  xsubmit_now.txt.ru

        yakutov@peterlink.ru Anton Yakutov
   


