docno="lists-005-5140916"
received="Tue Mar 30 07:40:05 2004"
isoreceived="20040330124005"
sent="Tue, 30 Mar 2004 14:39:14 +0200"
isosent="20040330123914"
name="mariam abacha"
email="mariaba@702mail.co.za"
subject="this is for you"
id="web-271243149@mail01.infosat.net"
charset="ISO-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:mariaba@702mail.co.za



Attention:sir 

 I am Mrs. Mariam Abacha, widow of the late Gen. Sani
 Abacha former Nigerian military head of state who died as
a result of cardiac arrest. The name of your company
appeared in one of our directories as one of the companies
my late
husband wanted to do business with before he died. I
therefore, decided to contact you in confidence so that I
can be able to move out the sum of US$50,000,000.00 ( Fifty
 Million United States Dollars Only) which was secretly
defaced and sealed in four big metal boxes for 
security reasons. 

I personally therefore appeal to you for your urgent
assistance to move this money into your country were I
believe it will be safe since I cannot leave the country
due to the restriction of movement imposed on me and
members of my family by the Nigerian government. You can
contact my son Mr. Abba Abacha on this number
234-8033903116; upon receipt of your response, my lawyer
shall arrange you towards the effective completion of
  this transaction. However, arrangements have been put in
place to move this money out of the country in batches in
the secret vault through a diplomatic security company to
any of the West African countries or possible Europe.


Conclusively, I have decided to offer you 25% of the total
sum while 5% will be for whatever expenses that will be
incurred while 70% is to be held in trust by you subsequent
to our free movement by the Nigerian  government.


Please reply urgently and treat absolute confidentiality
and sincerity, and send your response to this my e-mail
address mari003aba@yahoo.com.

 
Best Regards

MRS. MARIAM ABACHA



