docno="lists-073-11367714"
received="Wed Jul 29 09:07:59 1998"
isoreceived="19980729130759"
sent="Wed, 29 Jul 1998 09:08:19 -0400 (EDT)"
isosent="19980729130819"
name="Al Gilman"
email="asgilman@access.digex.net"
subject="Re: Article"
id="199807291308.JAA21866@access4.digex.net"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="01BDBAC9.768D3380.rcn&#64;fenix2.dol-esa.gov"
expires="-1"


To:rcn@fenix2.dol-esa.gov(Robert Neff)
Cc:w3c-wai-ig@w3.org,editoria@gcn.com

to follow up on what Robert Neff said:

> ... HotMetal Pro is a relational database and does not permit
> you to touch the code.  You have to exit and edit the code then
> re-import.

What model of HoTMetaL Pro did you use?

In my limited experience using HoTMetaL Pro 4, I have been able
to migrate between source, fully formatted, and a "tags on" view
while I have the document open for editing.  The "tags on" view
iconifies markup but indicates where it is in the document,
similar to displaying hard line breaks and spaces on the edit
screen.  I wind up using all three views before I am done with an
edit.

There was a report on this list that the new editor from
Macromedia is also round-trip-safe.  By that I mean if you use it
to edit an HTML document, it only changes what you changed.

There is evidence that if the site is generated by scripts
written by someone who is aware of accessibility issues, one can
get a pretty good site.  Examples are Kent State and the
Christian Science Monitor.

There is looser, less structured plan which seems like it might
work.  This is for the access-savvy webmaster to prepare page
templates and the content experts to create pages by editing the
templates with a round-trip-safe authoring tool.  The webmaster
would still probably need to check and fix the pages, but this
job would be doable as opposed to dealing with HTML that was
never meant to be touched by anything but the originating tool.

Does anybody here have experience with this sort of a site
template approach?

Al



