docno="lists-048-11299442"
received="Fri Oct 26 14:58:50 2001"
isoreceived="20011026185850"
sent="Fri, 26 Oct 2001 11:58:46 -0700"
isosent="20011026185846"
name="Stephen Petschulat/CanWest/IBM"
email="spetschu@ca.ibm.com"
subject="RDFCore WG minutes for the Telecon 2001-10-26"
id="OFDDC2ADF0.B54BA75C-ON88256AF1.0063086C@mkm.can.ibm.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org


RDFCore WG minutes for the Telecon 2001-10-26

Transcript:
http://ilrt.org/discovery/chatlogs/rdfcore/2001-10-26
Agenda:
http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2001Oct/0539.html


1: Allocate scribe: Stephen Petschulat

2: Roll Call

Participants:
    - Brian McBride (chair)
    - Daniel Brickley
    - Eric Miller
    - Art Barstow
    - Dave Beckett
    - Jeremey Carroll
    - Jos De Roo
    - Frank Manola
    - Stephen Petschulat
    - Aaron Swartz
    - Sergey Melnik (few minutes late)
    - Pat Hayes
    - Bill dehOra
    - Mike Dean

Regrets:
    - Jan Grant
    - Graham Klyne

Absent:
    - Dan Connolly
    - Frank Boumphrey
    - Ron Daniels
    - Rael Dornfest
    - Yoshiyuki Kitahara
    - Michael Kopchenov
    - KWON Hyung-Jin
    - Ora Lassila
    - Satoshi Nakamura
    - Pierre G Richard
    - Guha
    - Martyn Horner


3: Review Agenda

http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2001Oct/0539.html

     No AOB.


4: Next telecon - 10am Boston time, 2nd Nov 2001

     Confirmed.


5: Review Minutes of previous meeting with correction

See:
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2001Oct/0405.html
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2001Oct/0533.html

     Approved.


6: Confirm Status of Completed Actions

ACTION: 2001-10-19#11 Sergey
to post text attempting to state the two options, ASAP

     Confirmed.


7: Propose resolution of whether graphs are sets or bags

     pat: understands model theory will use sets
     pat: but will allow implementers to do what they want (sets or bags)
     jeremy: prefer clear wording w/ sets only
     art: we should have an explicit test case showing decision
     aaron: agenda doesn't give license to processors to double up on arcs
     ...Confusion over what the text allows & doesn't allow...
     frank: are you suggesting if the parser finds dups it SHOULDNT remove
them?
     aaron: yup
     jos: concerns about merging of large graph datasets
     brian: point of decision is how to treat model theory
     brian: this is independent of parser/implemention decisions

ACTION: 2001-10-26-#1 art: make a test case to illustrate set/bag decision


8: Brief update on Primer status

     em: hoping to get a release by this afternoon
     em: would primer sub-group be willing to meet next week?
     danbri: any text on schema for the primer
     em: some taken from various docs
     frankm: will produce data model section in next few days
     em: for those who have sections to contribute... short is sweet


9: Brief update on schema status

     danbri: sent draft out the other day
     danbri: too much writing work to do
     danbri: can we push some schema into the primer

     ...discussion on intended audience and approach to writing (see
transcript)...


10: Status of Action 2001-08-02#7
Dave Beckett, with help from Art and Jan, investigate how to represent
RDF/XML grammar and the specification of the transformation of RDF/XML to a
graph representation.

     Closed.

11: Postpone syntax issues
The aim here is to quickly resolve those issues for which there is clear
concensus.  If extended discussion is needed, we will postpone the
decision.

Propose the WG RESOLVE that the following issues be postponed for
consideration by a future WG

     ... some discussion, agreement that we should get rid of as many as we
can.
     Aaron expressed some concern about a few of the issues listed. He will
post a summary of his concerns to the mail list.
     Group agreed to proceed with getting rid of the issues listed that
nobody had objections to (see transcript for details)...

     ACTION: 2001-10-26#2  aaron to write objections to specific issues in
email

     DECISION: The following issues were removed from the WG's issue list:

     http://www.w3.org/2000/03/rdf-tracking/#rdfms-qnames-as-attrib-values
     http://www.w3.org/2000/03/rdf-tracking/#rdfms-syntax-incomplete

http://www.w3.org/2000/03/rdf-tracking/#rdfms-qnames-cant-represent-all-uris

     http://www.w3.org/2000/03/rdf-tracking/#rdfms-quoting


12: Close syntax issues
The aim here is to quickly resolve those issues for which there is clear
concensus.  If extended discussion is needed, we will postpone the
decision.

Propose the WG RESOLVE that the following issues be closed on the grounds
that they are resolved by the new approach taken to defining the syntax.

     Closed.


13: Datatyping:  Review Sergey's analysis and proposal

See:
  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2001Oct/0530.html

     ... much discussion (see transcripts) ...


14: Decide on topics for next telecon

     Datatyping is top of the list for next weeks call.


MEETING CLOSED.



cheers,

- steve

Stephen Petschulat



