docno="lists-028-12301256"
received="Tue Dec 16 18:21:30 2003"
isoreceived="20031216232130"
sent="Tue, 16 Dec 2003 15:13:02 -0600"
isosent="20031216211302"
name="Villas El Rancho / Mazatl?n M?xico"
email="promo@elrancho.com.mx"
subject="RV: Happy Holidays."
id="NIBBKBOOOLIGKHJNLAMKEEFHCBAA.promo@elrancho.com.mx"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"

To:<promo@elrancho.com.mx>


Email template
           Villas El Rancho
                  Happy Holidays to Everyone!

--------------------------------------------------------------------

           Somehow, not only for Christmas, But all the long year through,
The joy that you give to others, Is the joy that comes back to you. And the
more you spend in blessing, The poor and lonely and sad, The more of your
heart's possessing, Returns to you glad.
            John Greenleaf Whittier

            Dear Friend,

            As the holiday season is near, your friends at Villas el Rancho
would like to send our best wishes for this season and the upcoming year.


              Discover the improved common areas
                  The common areas of our resort have been improved. Visit
us and enjoy the best vacation you've ever had.

                  Visit our website...


               Travel all around the world...
                  With Villas El Rancho membership, you can go to different
places like Cairo, Barcelona or Honolulu. Enjoy this great opportunity to
explore the world.

                  Check it out now...




            Enjoy the following mexican recipe! Vegetable Tamales
                  Preparation and cooking time: 90 minutes
                  Cost: Very reasonable
                  Difficulty: Relatively easy

                  Tamales consist of a preparation cooked in corn husks. In
Mexico, corn husks are frequently used as cooking containers. This simple
primitive method allows foods to be cooked without drying out, while
imparting a unique flavour to them. There are many versions, in which the
fillings may include meat, cornmeal, or vegetables, as in the version given
here. Try different options!

                  Tips
                  To know if the filling is the proper consistency before
cooking it, roll out a small ball and drop it into boiling water; if it
floats, it's perfect - otherwise add a little butter to soften the batter.

                  To check the tamales for doneness, remove one tamale and
unwrap it; the corn husk should no longer stick to the dough inside.

                  Ingredients for 6 people

                  8 cobs of corn; 2 eggs; 3 tbsp. butter; 1 onion, finely
chopped; 125 ml (1/2 cup) milk; 1 tsp. sugar; 1 tomato, peeled, seeded and
chopped; 1 zucchini, peeled and finely diced; Salt; and freshly ground
pepper.

                  Preparation

                    1.. Remove the husks from the corn; keep some nice
supple husks from the best 4 or 6 ears; soak them in hot water to tenderize
them;
                    2.. remove the kernels from the cobs using a sharp
knife;
                    3.. melt the butter in a skillet; add the onion and cook
until it becomes translucent; add the tomato, zucchini and sugar; season and
cook 5 minutes longer;
                    4.. add the corn and the eggs that have been beaten
together with the milk, and continue cooking over low heat for 10 minutes,
stirring constantly;
                    5.. spread the corn husks out on a work surface; divide
the filling mixture onto the middle of the husks; if the husks are too
small, overlap two husks;
                    6.. fold the two ends in towards the centre; roll the
husks up to form a little package; tie with kitchen string;
                    7.. take a large pot and add in about three fingers'
height of water; place a rack inside, being sure that it is not sitting in
the water; line the rack with corn husks and place the tamales on top; cover
with more husks and a kitchen towel folded to fit the pot; close tightly to
keep all the steam inside; cook for an hour on medium heat;
                    8.. untie the packages and pile them on a serving
platter.



            We hope you enjoy this newsletter. Please feel free to send us
all your comments and suggestions.

            Have a great day!

            Sincerely,

            Villas El Rancho


--------------------------------------------------------------------
            e-mail: info@elrancho.com.mx
            phone: (+52) 871-7160606
            web: http://www.elrancho.com.mx


This email was sent to you, by Villas El Rancho.



