docno="lists-020-10155964"
received="Fri Apr 16 16:52:14 2004"
isoreceived="20040416205214"
sent="Fri, 16 Apr 2004 13:50:52 -0700"
isosent="20040416205052"
name="Rob Shearer"
email="Rob.Shearer@networkinference.com"
subject="another F2F hosting offer"
id="CFE388CECDDB1E43AB1F60136BEB497302808D@rome.ad.networkinference.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"


To:"RDF Data Access Working Group"<public-rdf-dawg@w3.org>


Network Inference would by very happy to host a few of the face-to-face
meetings here in Carlsbad, California. We're on the coast about half an
hour from San Diego and an hour from Los Angeles. It's 25C(75F) in the
summer with nice low humidity. It's southern California--the weather
here is about the best in the world year-round. (I know; I just moved
from London.)

All the LA airports are accessible (most international flights go
through LAX), San Diego is nearby, Long Beach airport gets service from
a few of the budget carriers (such as JetBlue) for domestic flights, and
Palomar Airport is within walking distance of the office (but I'll give
you a lift in my pimped-out ride) and can offer connecting flights to LA
and Phoenix.

We offer surfing, beaches, and all associated sights of interest (think
Baywatch). Local attractions include the San Diego Zoo, Sea World, and a
wild animal park. Tijuana is just down the road if anyone needs any
budget dental work or cosmetic surgery, and Hollywood is just up north
if the surgery goes well.

In addition to hosting a meeting in Carlsbad, Network Inference would
like to volunteer to manage arrangements for a meeting in Las Vegas if
anyone is interested. Vegas is just about the cheapest place in the
world to do any kind of a meeting; $40 a night for a hotel would
probably be a high-end estimate. Just thought I'd float the idea.



