docno="lists-090-5760336"
received="Thu Oct 24 07:25:25 2002"
isoreceived="20021024112525"
sent="Tue, 22 Oct 2002 23:54:48 -0400"
isosent="20021023035448"
name="MUSA SULE"
email="musa234@lycos.com"
subject="MESSAGE FROM AFRICA....PROPOSAL.."
id="MNNKGADJALGLCBAA@mailcity.com"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:wai-tech-comments@w3.org



From:Mr.Musa
     Ivory Coast.



Att:

I got your Email address through the net. Believe me, i
was move and inspired to write you.It seem to me you are a nice and
trustworthy person that i can entrust some business
with.

That is why i decided to write and seek business
partnership.

I have an uncle who is behind bar since six month. He
was sentence to Five years in prison by the high court
of justice, for Misapproriate of Millions of public
funds during his tenure in Government.

He kept some of the money the total amount of $23.5
million USD in a "Bank Safe Deposit Box/Locker" in
Europe in my name. What i am trying to do now is to
make Profit with this Money due to the fact that this
Money is not yielding any interest/Profit, because it
is cash kept in a "Safe Deposit Box/Locker" in the
Bank were he Open Account.

That is why i decided that i will invest the Money to
make Excess Profit till he is release from prison
2007.

For the fact that i am not so educated and it is my
first time to involve in business, that is why i am
soliciting for us to become business partner- and
advise or help me invest this money in a Business were
i can make high return yearly. Then,both of us will
Split the Profit 50/50.


Be aware that i would not like to play with my uncle
money because of the pain and surffering he is passing
through in jail.
Therefore be honest with me if you are capable of
handling this huge amount of money or not.

Please,i am expecting your respond. Also try to let me
know who you are.

Looking forward for a good Business relationship.
Regards,
Musa.




____________________________________________________________
Get 250 full-color business cards FREE right now!
http://businesscards.lycos.com 



