docno="lists-050-8597087"
received="Sun Jun  9 10:15:25 2002"
isoreceived="20020609141525"
sent="Sun, 9 Jun 2002 06:51:53 -0700 (PDT)"
isosent="20020609135153"
name="Sergey Melnik"
email="melnik@DB.Stanford.EDU"
subject="Re: Datatypes at F2F"
id="Pine.GSO.3.94.1020609064904.13663B-100000@Hake.Stanford.EDU"
charset="US-ASCII"
inreplyto="B926A5DE.16559%patrick.stickler&#64;nokia.com"
expires="-1"

To: Patrick Stickler<patrick.stickler@nokia.com>
cc: RDF Core<w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org>



On Fri, 7 Jun 2002, Patrick Stickler wrote:

> 
> 
> I would like to propose that a bit more time is given to resolving
> the datatyping issues at the F2F. Both Pat and I will be there, as
> will Jeremy and Graham. I would like to verify whether Sergey will
> also be present. If all three editors as well as most of the
> individuals with outstanding concerns/issues will be present, then
> I think it behooves us to make use of that opportunity to expidite
> closure.
> 
> Sergey, can you confirm that you will be attending?

I'm still waiting for my UK visa (alas, I need one). If I get it on time,
I'll be there...

Sergey



