docno="lists-083-8951342"
received="Mon Dec 20 12:32:49 1999"
isoreceived="19991220173249"
sent="Mon, 20 Dec 1999 11:30:43 -0600"
isosent="19991220173043"
name="Jon Gunderson"
email="jongund@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu"
subject="AGENDA: W3C WAI User Agent Telecon 22 December 1999"
id="4.1.19991220112904.00cd1100@staff.uiuc.edu"
charset="iso-8859-1"
expires="-1"


To:w3c-wai-ua@w3.org

WAI UA Telecon for December 22nd, 1999 

Chair: Jon Gunderson 
Date: Wednesday, December 15th
Time: 12:00 noon to 1:30 pm Eastern Standard Time, USA
Call-in: Tobin Bridge (+1) (617) 252-7000

Agenda

Review Open Action Items

   1.IJ: Review techniques for topic 3.2 

   2.IJ: Add clarifying Note to rationale that UAs can turn off control of
content even if it passes content off for rendering. 

   3.IJ: Send proposal to list related to checkpoint for incremental
positioning control in multi-media 

   4.IJ: Draft a statement for time of publication, there is no
authoritative body that validates claims of conformance 

   5.IJ: Refer to ATAG definition of "applicability" and propose to list. 

   6.IJ: In glossary, add WHO definition of impairment, disability, and add
functional limitation 

   7.IJ: Repropose simpler Checkpoint for 1.1 

   8.IJ: Repropose the delivery mechanism of conformance statement to allow
documentation as an option 

   9.IJ: Add access to the "class" attribute of an element to techniques
document 

  10.IJ: Propose new checkpoint by merging 7.3 and 7.7 to the list 

  11.IJ: Propose a technique for using XSL to transform content 

  12.IJ: Write Bryan Campbell/H?kon Lie for clarification and David Clark,
Mark Novak (cc the list). 

  13.JG: Review techniques for Guideline 8.3 to 8.9 

  14.JG: Contact Madelaine Rothberg, Marjia, Eric Hanson, Ian send proposal
related to multi-media terminology to AU and GL with history
     and proposal to reconcile any current or potential differences between
documents. 

  15.JG: I will request the bridge for 5 and 12 January at 12:00 EST for
extra conference calls to clear the issues list by early January 

  16.DA: Propose rational to explain why deceleration of multi-media is
important for users with impairments. 

  17.DB: Review techniques for Guideline 5 

  18.DB: Ask IE Team about publication of review of IE 5 and Pri 1
checkpoints. 

  19.DB: Find out how developers find out which appropriate triggers to use
in Windows for using built-in accessibility 
features (i.e. sound
     sentry, show sounds, ...) 

  20.DP: Propose new Checkpoint 1.5 for access to system messages 

  21.DP: Send to the list techniques for how to use and control focus to
not have new windows cause problems for usability. In particular, how
     this will work with ATs. 

  22.EH: Refine proposal on the meaning of "synchornized alternatives" to
the list. 

  23.GR: Take WHO definitions of disability, impairment and functional to
the ATAG and GL WGs for consideration in their definitions 

  24.GR: Send to the list techniques for how to use and control focus to
not have new windows cause problems for usability. In particular, how
     this will work with ATs. 

  25.GR: Write a technique on how to create accessible installation 

  26.KB: Update impact matrix based on 5 November draft. Pending 

  27.MR: Review techniques for topic 3.1 (Multi-media) 

  28.MR: Review techniques for Guideline 4 (Multi-media) 

  29.MK: Write some comments on synchronization in multi-media to the list 

  30.MQ: Ask Mark about meaning of comment raised in Issue #167 

  31.WC: Take form submission to GL WG to discuss issues related to
inadvertent submission. 

Announcements 

   1.Web Content is rechartering 

   2.New telecon weekly day and time for working group start on 6 January 2000 
     Thursdays, 2-3:30pm (EST, USA), on Longfellow Bridge (+1-617-252-1038) 

   3.Additional telecons to clear last call issues: 
     Wednesday, 5 January 2000, 12:00-1:30 EST USA, Longfellow Bridge
(+1-617-252-1038)
     Wednesday, 12 January 2000, 12:00-1:30 EST USA, Longfellow Bridge
(+1-617-252-1038) 

Discussion 

   1.Candidate recommendation 

   2.LC#138: "Synchronized equivalent" v. "Continuous Equivalent"/ Proposed
split of 2.5 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#138 

   3.LC#145: Why is 3.7 Pri 1 and 3.10 Pri 3? (Re: blinking and flashing)
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#145 

   4.LC#156: Propose change in priority of 5.6 (P1 -> P2) 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#156 

   5.LC#158: Propose priority change (1 to 2) for checkpoint 4.1 (control
of font family) 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#158 

   6.LC#159: Propose raise priority of 4.13 to Priority 1 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#159 

   7.LC#161: Raise priority of 8.8 to P2 (highlighting and identifying
selection/focus) 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#161 

   8.LC#162: Raise priority of 8.9 (consistency in configs) to P2. 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#162 

   9.LC#166: Review priority of 10.5 (default configs that interfere with
OS conventions) 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#166 

  10.LC#175: Proposed raise (to P1) of checkpoint 4.18 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#175 

  11.LC#176: Proposed change in priority (P3 to P2) for checkpoint 8.7
(link information) 
     http://cmos-eng.rehab.uiuc.edu/ua-issues/issues-linear.html#176 

Jon Gunderson, Ph.D., ATP
Coordinator of Assistive Communication and Information Technology
Chair, W3C WAI User Agent Working Group
Division of Rehabilitation - Education Services
College of Applied Life Studies
University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign
1207 S. Oak Street, Champaign, IL  61820

Voice: (217) 244-5870
Fax: (217) 333-0248

E-mail: jongund@uiuc.edu

WWW: http://www.staff.uiuc.edu/~jongund
WWW: http://www.w3.org/wai/ua



