docno="lists-071-13359530"
received="Thu Nov 27 02:51:58 2003"
isoreceived="20031127075158"
sent="Thu, 27 Nov 2003 09:51:36 +0200"
isosent="20031127075136"
name="lisa seeman"
email="seeman@netvision.net.il"
subject="questions on java scripts,  life,  the universe and WCAG 2.0..."
id="000201c3b4bb$4ebab9d0$ad00000a@patirsrv.patir.com"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="004401c3b477$4bd3de70$a201a8c0&#64;deque.local"
expires="-1"

To:<w3c-wai-gl@w3.org>


I am pinging the group on something that has been bothering me for a
while.
A while back it was explained to me that we were removing the priority 1
requirement that would bar people form using JavaScript 
 
In general terms the reasoning was to avoid make WCAG W3C centric, and
to remove the until user agent stuff
 
However in practice we have a situation were people can be P! compliant
and totally inaccessible.
 
For example - my variety site  <http://www.nagish.org.il/>
http://www.nagish.org.il/ were you have a frame, containing an imbedded
frame, were the frame set itself is written by a JavaScript and a useful
no frames and no scripts apparently can not be generated by the content
management system. (by the way the site owners are good guys, and are
working to change it)
 
code snippet from second frameset)
 
" document.write('<frameset rows="91,*" name="MainFrame"  border="0">') 
document.write('<frame class="clsFrameTitle" marginwidth="0"
marginheight="0" id="idTopBar" name="TopBar"
src="frame_title.asp?sp_c=424450463" frameborder="0" scrolling="NO"
noresize>')
  "

 
I have two questions
 
1, can a single screen reader out there get to the content of the page
as it is now? 
2, would the site owners be likely to entirely rewrite their site, and
change content management systems, if they could still claim some level
of accessibility (after all, the alt tags are filled in -the fonts are
even relative - the site owner tried to make it accessible)
 
 
The  nagging feeling a the back of my mind,  -  WCAG 2 may be a more
testable normative document - but is it a better set of guidelines (not
policy) on how to make your website accessible?
 
 
 
Yup, of course - I am still thinking of the demotion of the guideline on
writing clearly...
 

All the best

Lisa Seeman

 

Visit us at the UB  <http://www.ubaccess.com/> Access website

UB Access - Moving internet accessibility

 



