docno="lists-004-5992085"
received="Sun Sep 21 06:57:54 2003"
isoreceived="20030921105754"
sent="Wed, 13 Dec 2000 19:29:49 -0800"
isosent="20001214032949"
name="DR BISI AZIZ"
email="bisi_aziz@juno.com"
subject="C.BN"
id="20030921105750.162C214088@w3c2.w3.org"
charset="us-ascii"
expires="-1"

To:ietf-charsets@w3.org



CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA ,TELEX DEPARTMENT

LAGOS LIAISON OFFICE, P.M.B. 1279



I am the Director of Telex International remittance
department of the Central Bank of Nigeria. Your e-mail
address came to me as a matter of urgency on the
transfer of this money, that amounted to $25.5 Million
U.S. Dollars, at the course of my final verification
and payment of this said amount to the contractor that
was presumed to have executed the contract,during the
past Military regime, with contract number
NNPC/PED/FGN/02/96and file Number NNPC/122, I found
out that the contractor could not adequately defend
the contract he executed in Nigeria.

 Further to my investigations, I found out that one
Captain Umaru Usman of the Nigeria army, wanted to use
his influence as a friend to outsted Central Bank
Governor (Paul Ugwuma) to move this money out of this
Country into this contractor's account overseas but
the Captain was sent on ECOMOG peace keeping where he
was killed in Liberia by the rebel group led by
Charles Taylor. Since then, this money has been
unclaimed.

 As the Obasanjo democratic regime now in place wanted
to pay up the genuine contractors. A total sum of $285
Million U.S.Dollars has been paid to contractors,
mostly foreign contractors so that he can redeem
Nigerians image abroad. In this his kind gesture,
somany contractors has benefitted. Following the said
$25.5million U.S. Dollars now in my possession. I will
like to remit it into your account as all modalities
has been put in place to trasfering this money into
your account. I must strongly remind you that you have
nothing to fear, it is risk free. 

Then, I will like you to forward the following:- Your
Bank particulars, ranging from name to account number.
Your Personal/Company?s name. Your Phone/Fax Numbers.
Your e-mail address. You are to receive 30% of this
money, while I, and few of my colleagues will receive
60% and 10% will be to balance up any miscellaneous
expenses incurred in the cause of transfer, if there
will be any. Sir, Your immediate reply to this letter
is highly expected. Note that, this transfer will take
14 working days (2 weeks).

 Best regards, (Director of Telex,CBN)
 DR BISI AZIZ



