docno="lists-015-8733898"
received="Wed Sep  4 10:00:27 2002"
isoreceived="20020904140027"
sent="Wed, 4 Sep 2002 09:32:03 0400 (EDT)"
isosent="20020904133203"
name="Holly Marie"
email="hollym@dls.net"
subject="Web Design Curriculum ?"
id="000c01c25417$ecd68d20$9865fea9@hollylpiggtm47"
expires="1"


To:<public-evangelist@w3.org>





I was wondering if there are any curriculum models out there for
Universities, Colleges, or other educational institutions to follow,  in
order to restructure, or build a course for teaching web design. A
standardized curriculum that would include topics of guidelines,
accessibility, standards, etc. With hints or help on how to introduce
topics along the way.

It would seem to me that many or most might have to teach these courses
with text editors in mind and not web authoring tools, or at least start
these students at that text editing point. If they were to use the web
authoring tools, they may find themselves in a spot to use up a lot of
critical learning time explaining to students how to produce well
formatted and valid markup.

I think an article or piece, or site directed at teaching institutions
and instructors is in order.

There is a wealth of information out there, but it seems like there
needs to be a really good central site or set of pages that will help
for those wishing to transform. Many sites I can think of are great,
though the information is fractured into areas of specific interest.
Accessibility sites may not embrace the full guidelines and format
structure or how to work with CSS and XHTML or strict markup. Likewise
on the markup helpful sites, they may miss out on some critical
information regarding Accessibility issues or key points. This can be a
time consuming or an overwhelming task for any Course Developer with the
abundance of so much good information out there and so many avenues it
is coming from.

I was wondering if there is such a site up or in the works?

thanks,

holly



