docno="lists-053-16240542"
received="Thu Jan 15 07:36:21 2004"
isoreceived="20040115123621"
sent="Thu, 15 Jan 2004 12:29:20 +0000"
isosent="20040115122920"
name="Graham Klyne"
email="gk@ninebynine.org"
subject="Re: call for agenda items for this weeks telecon"
id="5.1.0.14.2.20040115120024.02565558@127.0.0.1"
charset="us-ascii"
inreplyto="4005C4DB.4030308&#64;hplb.hpl.hp.com"
expires="-1"


To: Brian McBride<bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com>, rdf core<w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org>
Cc: Aaron Swartz<me@aaronsw.com>


As noted previously, I'm not expecting to be available for this telecon.

Concerning:
[[
>status of mimetypes doc
]]

I note that there have (to my knowledge) been no further comments since the 
message I posted to ietf-types in November [1], so I suggest that we are 
ready to request IESG approval and RFC publication.

There was some discussion about  how to progress this:  the obvious but 
slow route would be to request IESG approval for publication and 
registration, and have them hand off to the RFC editor;  maybe a more 
lightweight approach would be to request the RFC-editor to consider 
publication as informational RFC, and in parallel seek IESG approval for 
the ietf-tree MIME type registration.  I could make enquiry about this and 
would be happy to accept an action do so.

(Aaron:  I understand that the RFC editor accepts XML2RFC source 
documents.  Could you let us have/point us at a copy of this so we can 
forward it at the appropriate point.)

[1] http://eikenes.alvestrand.no/pipermail/ietf-types/2003-November/000123.html

Concerning:
[[
>review of TAG's web architecture document
]]

I am about half way through a review of this, and so far I haven't noticed 
anything that I think is an RDFcore concern.

Concerning:
[[
>advice to CG on postponed issues
]]

I remind folks of my earlier comments [2].

[2] http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-rdfcore-wg/2003Dec/0010.html

#g
--

At 22:38 14/01/04 +0000, Brian McBride wrote:

>There will be a telecon this week.  On my list of possibles, I have:
>
>consider changes to semantics doc
>consdier changes to primer
>status of mimetypes doc
>advice to CG on postponed issues
>anything else on the todo list
>schema for datatypes?
>review of TAG's web architecture document
>
>Other suggestions welcome.
>
>Brian

------------
Graham Klyne
For email:
http://www.ninebynine.org/#Contact



