docno="lists-049-16318747"
received="Thu Feb 21 08:43:53 2002"
isoreceived="20020221134353"
sent="Thu, 21 Feb 2002 13:40:34 +0000"
isosent="20020221134034"
name="Dave Beckett"
email="dave.beckett@bristol.ac.uk"
subject="Re: Outstanding Issues - rdfms-xmllang"
id="21236.1014298834@tatooine.ilrt.bris.ac.uk"
inreplyto="bwm&#64;hplb.hpl.hp.com"
expires="-1"

To: Brian McBride<bwm@hplb.hpl.hp.com>
cc:Misha.Wolf@reuters.com,danbri@w3.org,brian_mcbride@hp.com,w3c-rdfcore-wg@w3.org,w3c-i18n-wg@w3.org


>>>Brian McBride said:
> In principal, I think that would be an excellent idea.
> 
> Jeremy, please could you suggest a statement of purpose for the meeting and 
> objectives, and possibly an agenda.
> 
> Do we do this a small subgroup from RDFCore meeting with the i18n folks or 
> as the whole WG.  Who from RDFCore would like to participate in such a 
> discussion on RDF conformance to charmod?

I'd like to participate since I'm the editor of the RDF/XML Syntax WD
and need to grasp in order to address the issues.

Dave



